
Madam Speaker, we are facing a very important vote again here. In
fact, it is the last opportunity the House will have for deficit
reduction this year. Because of the nature of the rules of this House,
as many of my colleagues know, if we cut spending out of discretionary
spending later in the year, those cuts do not reduce the deficit. So
this is the last opportunity, the last train leaving the station in
order to reduce the deficit, in order to cut Federal spending.
This motion I am offering, but also working in concert with the
gentleman from Minnesota [Mr. Penny] and the gentleman from Texas [Mr.
Stenholm].
This proposal, which endeavors to cut defense, which has been voted
on already in the Senate, which has passed the Senate, imposes another
$26 billion in deficit reduction.


It would be the first additional deficit reduction proposal that
would be enacted since the President raised taxes in this Congress.
Madam Speaker, what we do is we are asking the House conferees to cut
this spending by $26 billion over 5 years. That represents 0.3 percent
of Federal spending over the next 5 years. If Members would focus their
attention on this chart, they will see that the big orange ball
represents total Federal spending. There is a sliver in there. It is
very difficult to see that sliver. In fact, I have in my hand a
magnifying glass that I need to look very closely in order to see how
much spending is done.
This is a magnifying glass, I say, because I am sure the Members
cannot see that sliver of spending cuts on this chart. We do need a
magnifying glass in order to see the spending cuts that will occur
under this proposal.
Aside from that, let us look at it graphically another way. This
represents total Federal spending over the next 5 years, well over $8
trillion. If we compare now much Federal spending will occur over the
next 5 years with this sliver of a cut, as Members can see by putting
the rules up there, frankly, we need a magnifying glass in order to see
the difference between what Federal spending will do without the
Grassley-Exon cuts and what it will do with them.
Madam Speaker, this is an opportunity in this House to finally try to
cut some spending. Every time we come to the floor to cut spending, we
hear a litany of reasons why we should not do it.
``We should not cut now, we ought to cut later,'' reason No. 1.
Reason No. 2, ``The proposal is not specific enough.''
Reason No. 3 to reject spending cuts, ``The proposal is too specific.
Therefore, we should not adopt it.''
The fourth reason why we should not do it, ``We cannot cut spending.
We have to use the savings to fix the health care problem in this
country.''
Reason No. 5, ``We are not cutting entitlements.''
Reason No. 6, ``Why are you cutting entitlements?''
Reason No. 7, ``You do not need to cut the deficit in good times.''
Reason No. 8, ``Well, you cannot in good conscience cut the deficit
in bad times.''
In other words, every time an effort is made on this House floor to
reduce spending, whether it is the Penny-Kasich bill that cut a penny
out of a dollar, or whether it is the Exon-Grassley motion to instruct
conferees, where we are making the smallest sliver of cuts in Federal
spending, this House figures out or brings every ghost and goblin and
every strawman it can conjure in its imagination to this House floor to
scare Members into voting no.
I would say to the Members of this House, when the American people
get the message that this House is not capable of cutting one red cent
from any program under any circumstance in any condition, they are
going to feel their outrage. What I say to the Members of this House
is, come to this House floor. Instruct conferees to agree with the
Senate, and let us just do the smallest bit of down payment to reduce
the national debt and the growing Federal deficit.
Mr. Speaker, it should come as no surprise that 18 organizations--and
the millions of individuals they speak for--have announced their
support for the Penny-Kasich motion to cut spending by $26.1 billion
over the next 5 years. They understand that it represents our last
chance on this year's budget to cut the deficit.
I ask Members to please review the following list and consider their
reasons for supporting this motion. Then consider this motion to keep
the cuts that were passed in the Senate. We think you will agree that
cutting spending by just a fraction over the next 5 years is the least
our constituents can expect from us.

Organizations Endorsing the Kasich Motion

American Business Conference--A coalition of chief
executive officers from the fastest growing mid-sized
companies in America.
Americans for Tax Reform--A non-profit, non-partisan
national taxpayer advocacy group, Americans for Tax Reform
promotes free market economic policies and lower taxes.
Associated Builders and Contractors--A national
construction association representing 16,000 merit (open)
shop construction and construction-related firms in 80
chapters across the United States.
Association of Concerned Taxpayers--A grassroots lobbying
organization working for tax simplification and tax reduction
and opposing tax increases.
Chamber of Commerce--The world's largest federation of
business companies and associations and is the principal
spokesgroup for the American business community.
Christian Coalition--A pro-family organization with over 1
million members.
Citizens Against Government Waste--A 550,000 member private
sector, non-partisan, non-profit organization which educates
the American people about the waste, mismanagement, and
inefficiency in the Federal Government.
Citizens for a Sound Economy--A 250,000 member citizen
advocacy group that promotes market- based solutions to
public policy problems.
Concerned Women for America--The nation's largest non-
partisan, politically active women's organization with over
600,000 members.
Concord Coalition--A bipartisan, grassroots organization
dedicated to eliminating the deficit.
Family Research Council--The Family Research Council is an
independent, non-profit, advocacy organization dedicated to
ensuring that the interests of the family are considered and
respected in the formation of public policy.
Financial Executive Institute--Represents over 14,000
senior financial executives from over 8,000 companies
throughout the United States. As financial executives, they
are primarily committed to bringing greater financial
responsibility to the Federal Government
National Association of Manufacturers.
National Federation of Independent Business--The nation's
largest advocacy organization representing small and
independent business owners. With a membership of more than
600,000 business owners, NFIB is a melting pot of commercial
enterprise: high tech manufacturers and family farmers,
neighborhood retailers and service companies.
National Taxpayers Union--Founded in 1969, The National
Taxpayers Union is the nation's largest non-partisan, non-
profit taxpayers' organization. NTU represents over 250,000
taxpayers dedicated to limited government and fiscal
responsibility.
Responsible Budget Action Group--A bipartisan organization
formed to lobby on major budget and fiscal policy issues.
RBAG undertakes a lobbying campaign only when it is the
consensus of the board that the issue is of such overwhelming
significance and importance to warrant involvement.
Senior's Coalition--A non-profit, non-partisan senior
educational and advocacy group with over 2 million members
and supporters nationwide, the Senior's Coalition is
America's third largest senior's organization.
Small Business Survival Committee--A small business
advocacy group that works to oppose taxes, regulations, and
pending legislation at all levels of government that impose
unfair burdens on American businesses and impede economic
growth.
____


American Business Conference Resolution on Fiscal Year 1995 Budget

Resolved, The American Business Conference (ABC),
reaffirming its view that persistent federal budget deficits,
combined with a low rate of national saving, are serious
impediments to long-term economic growth, calls on the House
and Senate budget resolution conferees to adopt the spending
cuts approved by the Senate in its budget resolution for
fiscal year 1995. These spending cuts represent an additional
reduction over five years of $43.2 billion in budget
authority and $26 billion in outlays from the Clinton
Administration's budget proposal and the budget resolution of
the House of Representatives. Believing, with the President,
that the defense budget should not be subject to additional
cuts beyond those achieved in OBRA 1993, ABC calls on House
and Senate conferees to direct that the spending cuts fall on
non-defense programs.
____



Americans For Tax Reform,

Washington, DC, April 12, 1994.
Hon. John Kasich,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Dear Mr. Kasich: On behalf of the members of Americans for
Tax Reform, I want to thank you for your efforts to achieve
real deficit reduction, without raising taxes.
As we approach April 15, the real pain of a growing tax
burden is being felt by millions of Americans. All the more
important then, is your motion to instruct House conferees to
accept the modicum of spending cuts enacted by the Senate in
the Budget Bill. I am happy to support this effort, and to
commit the members of ATR to the battle. Feel free to make
whatever use of this letter you wish.
Sincerely,
Grover G. Norquist.
____

Associated Builders


and Contractors, Inc.,

Rosslyn, VA, April 13, 1994.
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Dear Representative: On behalf of the 16,000 member
companies of the Associated Builders and Contractors we
strongly urge you to support the motion by Representatives
Tim Penny, John Kasich and Charles Stenholm to instruct the
House conferees for the FY 1995 Congressional Budget
Resolution to accept the $26 billion in cuts approved by the
Senate.
Senators James Exon and Charles Grassley were successful in
passing their amendment to cut discretionary spending by $26
billion. ABC feels that it is important to retain these
Senate cuts in the House Resolution to set an example for
fiscal responsibility in our nation's budget process.
While attempting to cut an extra $26 billion from the $1.5
trillion budget will not balance the budget, it does send an
important message to the American people that Congress is
willing to take a small step toward curbing the runaway
budget deficit.
Further, ABC strongly urges you to retain the House
amendment by Representative Mike Parker to the Resolution
which assumes savings from an increase in the Davis-Bacon
threshold to $100,000 and a reduction in the reporting
requirements from weekly to monthly. This amendment is
identical to Vice President Gore's National Performance
Review which recommended an increase in the Davis-Bacon
threshold to $100,000 and reduction of the paperwork
associated with the law.
Please support the motion to instruct to accept the $26
billion in cuts approved by the Senate. Also retain the
increase in the Davis-Bacon threshold to $100,000 and a
reduction in the reporting requirements from weekly to
monthly.
Sincerely,
Charlotte W. Herbert,
Vice President, Government Relations.
____



Association of Concerned Taxpayers,

Washington, DC, April 12, 1994.
Hon. John Kasich,
U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Dear John: Your efforts to achieve a reasonable substitute
for the Clinton Budget are of primary importance. It is
critical that we continue to move towards fiscal sanity, and
clear that your proposal did that.
Unfortunately, the House saw fit to continue its profligate
ways. The taxpayer fared somewhat better in the Senate, if
the House will accept the Exon-Grassley amendment cutting the
budget by $26 billion over five years. While this does not
achieve the level of savings in the original Kasich
substitute, it is a good step in the right direction, and
deserves support.
Please count the members of the Association of Concerned
Taxpayers among the supporters of your effort to instruct the
House conferees to accept the Senate position.
And thanks again for your efforts.
Sincerely,
Gordon S. Jones.
____

Chamber of Commerce of the


United States of America,

Washington, DC, April 14, 1994.
Hon. John R. Kasich,
U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Dear Representative Kasich: As the House appoints conferees
to the FY 93 Budget Resolution, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
strongly supports your motion to instruct House conferees to
agree to Senate language on discretionary spending caps. As
you know, the Senate version of the Budget Resolution would
lower these caps by $26.1 billion over five years, reflecting
an amendment by Senator Grassley (R-IA).
The Chamber believes the Grassley amendment would place
renewed pressure on discretionary spending programs. As
Congress works to meet these ambitious targets, we are
hopeful that a solid examination and prioritization of
federal programs will result. Our nation can no longer afford
programs that are ineffective, inefficient, or that fail to
advance the broader national interest.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, representing 215,000
businesses, 3,000 state and local chambers of commerce, 1,200
trade and professional associations, and 69 American Chambers
of Commerce abroad, applauds your leadership on this issue.
We look forward to working with you on other opportunities to
return the nation's government to fiscal responsibility.
Sincerely,
R. Bruce Josten.
____

Christian Coalition,


Capitol Hill Office,

April 4, 1994.
Dear Member of Congress: On behalf of the one million
members and supporters of the Christian Coalition, we urge
you to resist any efforts to weaken the spending cuts now
contained in S. Con. Res. 63., the concurrent budget
resolution for fiscal year 1995.
A bipartisan effort, led by Senators Exon and Grassley, in
the Senate Budget Committee resulted in a resolution which
includes an amendment to cut discretionary spending outlays
by $26 billion over the next five years. Now the bipartisan
team of Representatives Penny, Stenholm and Kasich is leading
this effort in the House to keep these cuts. These spending
reductions are only a modest step in reducing the deficit,
yet it is imperative that they be preserved.
Congress has had several opportunities, but has failed,
this year to reduce the deficit and provide tax relief for
families. We know this is to the frustration to many of those
Members who for years have tried to cut spending and to those
Members who were elected in the last cycle on pledges of
fiscal reform.
On April 15, millions of American families will be required
to pay almost 40 percent of their income on taxes combined
for all levels of government. Families have no choice but to
spend within their means. It is time for Congress to do the
same.
The legacy of debt we are leaving for our children is a
disgrace. We urge you to preserve the $26 billion in spending
reductions. The fiscally responsible votes will be ``YES'' on
the previous question and ``YES'' on the original Kasich
Amendment.
Sincerely,
Marshall Wittmann,
Director, Legislative Affairs.
Heidi Scanlon,
Director, Governmental Affairs.
____

The Concord Coalition,


1025 Vermont Avenue NW., Suite 810,

Washington, DC,April 14, 1994.

A Modest Gesture in the Right Direction

The Concord Coalition today indicated its support for a
motion to instruct House conferees on the budget resolution
to support a 5-year, $26 billion spending reduction that was
added by Senators Exon (D-NE) and Grassley (R-IA) to the
Senate's version of the budget resolution.
``Compared to Concord's recommendations, the proposed
reduction of $26 billion is a pittance,'' said former Senator
Warren B. Rudman, Co-chair of The Concord Coalition. ``It
would translate into only $1.6 billion of spending cuts next
year, a mere 3 tenths of one percent of discretionary
spending, and less than a 1 percent cut over the next five
years. Nevertheless, it is a move in the right direction.
Anyone serious about reducing the federal budget deficit
should be willing to trim appropriations by these small
amounts,'' Rudman added.
``Reconciliation legislation to trim entitlements is off
the agenda for this year and the health care reform debate
calls into question whether or how son health costs can be
brought under control,'' said Martha Phillips, Executive
Director of The Concord Coalition. ``The modest discretionary
cuts proposed in the Senate Budget Resolution would be at
least a symbolic gesture in the direction of deficit
reduction.''
The Concord Coalition's own Zero Deficit Plan, which would
balance the budget by the year 2000, calls for fifty specific
domestic discretionary spending terminations and reductions
totalling $94 billion over the next five years, plus another
$14 billion in defense and international spending reductions.
In the same five years, the Zero Deficit Plan would add $19
billion in new domestic discretionary spending for
investments. Thus, Concord's net discretionary reductions
would total $89 billion. In addition, The Concord Coalition's
plan required increased revenues and major reductions in
entitlement spending.
The Concord Coalition is a bipartisan nonprofit grass roots
organization dedicated to strengthening America's economy by
eliminating the federal budget deficit. It is co-chaired by
former Senators Paul E. Tsongas (D-MA) and Warren B. Rudman
(R-NH).
____



Citizens Against Government Waste,

Washington, DC, April 8, 1994.
Dear Representative: The House soon will consider a motion
to instruct the conferees on the FY 1995 Congressional Budget
Resolution to be offered by Representatives John Kasich (R-
OH), Tim Penny (D-MN), and Charles Stenholm (D-TX). The goal
of the motion to instruct is to preserve $26 billion in
budget cuts adopted last month in the Senate version of the
Budget Resolution. As you are aware, Senators James Exon (D-
NE) and Charles Grassley (R-IA) offered the successful
amendment, and we are anxious to see the House of
Representatives follow suit.
It is time to make the cuts count. This is not just another
motion. This instruction to the conferees would set an
example for fiscal responsibility in our nation's budget
process. The effort in the Senate to include the cuts
totaling $26 billion was completely bipartisan. Three
attempts to strip some or all of the spending cuts were
defeated.
Inside the Beltway, this may be a tough vote for some
members of Congress. But American taxpayers know that adding
to the deficit is more painful than a single vote in the U.S.
House of Representatives.
The 600,000 members of the Council for Citizens Against
Government Waste (CCAGW) urge you to vote to recede to the
spending cuts in the Senate Budget Resolution. It is a vote
in the best interest of our children and their children.
CCAGW will rate this vote in our annual ratings.
Sincerely,
Tom.
____


CSE Key Vote Notice

April 12, 1994.
Issue: Budget resolution (motion to instruct House
conferees).
Vote: For the previous question and the Kasich amendment.

Dear Representative: On behalf of the 250,000 members of
Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE), I urge you to vote yes on
the previous question and yes on the original Kasich
Amendment to instruct House conferees to accept the $26
billion in spending cuts. A vote for both issues signifies
your support to preserve the spending cuts passed by the
Senate.
CSE will count this as a KEY VOTE to be reported to our
members in your district. This KEY VOTE will be used to
determine your eligibility for our Jefferson Award, to be
presented at the conclusion of this Congress.
Sincerely,
Michele Isele,
Vice President of Government Relations.
____



Concerned Women for America,

April 6, 1994.
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Dear Representative: Concerned Women for America's members
throughout the United States are very disturbed by the
increased tax burden on families which often compels both
parents to enter the work force in order to make financial
ends meets. Ironically, two-thirds of a working mother's
salary in the average two parent, two-income household, will
still go to pay for federal taxes rather than additional
income for her family.
Representatives John Kasich (R-OH), Tim Penny (D-MN) and
Charlie Stenholm (D-TX) recognize the overwhelming burden
placed on American families and are working to secure
America's future through deficit reduction and responsible
government spending. In continuation of the bipartisan
amendment passed in the Senate, Concerned Women for America
urges Members to cut discretionary spending outlays by $26
billion over the next five years. These cuts are the first
step assuring a sound economic future for America's children.
In order to achieve deficit reduction, the government must
work the way American families reduce their own personal
budget problems--through the reduction of spending.
CWA believes this is a winning issue. Our members strongly
urge you to vote ``yes'' on the previous question and ``yes''
on the original Kasich Amendment to the FY 95 Budget.
Thank you for your time and attention. We look forward to
working with you further on this issue. Concerned Women for
America is the largest non-partisan, politically active
women's organization in the nation, representing over 600,000
members.
Sincerely,
Beverly LaHaye,
President.
____



Family Research Council,

April 7, 1994.
Dear Member of Congress: We strongly urge you to support
the Kasich/Penny/Stenholm motion to instruct the House
conferees on the Budget Resolution to accept the Exon-
Grassley amendment as added in the Senate. The Exon-Grassley
amendment will require an additional $26 billion in
discretionary spending cuts over the next five years.
This step towards greater deficit reduction is important to
families because of the special interest that families have
in future generations. Parents are concerned that any debt
that is passed on to the next generation will serve as a
serious hindrance to their children's economic well-being.
Reducing the deficit is vital to the long-term strength of
the U.S. economy and thus the long-term economic strength of
the family.
The cuts in Exon-Grassley are small, calling for only one-
third of one percent over the next five years. The benefits,
however, of beginning to reduce the deficit are great. Please
do not pass up this opportunity for deficit reduction.
Please support the Exon-Grassley amendment by voting for
the Kasich/Penny/Stenholm motion to instruct the conferees.
Sincerely,


Gary L. Bauer,

President.
____



Financial Executives Institute,

Washington, DC, April 8, 1994.
Hon. John R. Kasich,
U.S. House of Representatives, Ranking Member, House Budget
Committee, Ford House Office Building, Washington, DC.
Dear Congressman Kasich: On behalf of Financial Executives
Institute, I am writing to offer FEI's strong support to the
bipartisan effort in the House led by you, Rep. Tim Penny,
and Rep. Charlie Stenholm to preserve the Senate's $26
billion in spending cuts passed in S. Con. Res. 63.
Financial Executives Institute (FEI), is a professional
association of 14,000 senior financial executives from some
8,000 major corporations throughout the United States and
Canada.
As senior financial executives, we have long understood the
correlation between fiscal responsibility and the efficient
operation of our corporations. Indeed, if any corporation
operated in the same manner as the Federal Government, the
SEC would shut it down.
While attempting to cut an extra $26 billion from the $1.5
trillion budget will not balance the budget, it does send an
important message to the American people that Congress is
willing to take a small step toward curbing the runaway
budget deficit.
We commend you and your colleagues for your tireless
dedication to effect real change in the way Congress spends
the American people's hard earned dollars. FEI stands ready
to assist you in this important effort.
Sincerely,
James A. Kaitz.
____

National Association


of Manufacturers,

April 14, 1994.
Hon. Charles W. Stenholm,
U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, DC.
Dear Representative Stenholm: This letter is to inform you
of NAM's strong support for the pending motion to instruct
House conferees on the budget resolution to accept the $26
billion in spending cuts passed by the Senate.
We believe these additional spending cuts are a necessary
step in further reducing federal budget deficits that are
still too high.
The NAM therefore urges the House of Representatives to
accept the Senate's $26 billion in discretionary spending
cuts over the next five years.
Sincerely,
Paul R. Huard.
____

National Federation of


Independent Business,

Washington, DC, April 11, 1994.
The Honorable,
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Dear Representative: On behalf of the over 600,000 members
of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), I
urge you to support the motion to instruct House conferees on
the Budget Resolution to accept the $26 billion in spending
cuts approved by the Senate. I strongly encourage you to
support this motion when it comes to the House floor for a
vote.
The vote is likely to take place on Wednesday, April 13.
Representatives Penny and Kasich are planning to offer the
bipartisan motion to accept the spending cuts approved by the
Senate. Senators Grassley and Exon led a bipartisan effort
resulting in the Senate Budget Committee reporting out a
resolution which included an amendment to cut discretionary
spending by $26 billion over the next five years. The full
Senate adopted the resolution including the cuts by a vote of
57-40.
The House motion to accept the $26 billion in cuts
represents just a fraction of all federal spending; however,
it is a necessary step to reduce the deficit and the size of
the federal government. NFIB members have consistently and
overwhelmingly voted in favor of immediate deficit reduction,
88% in favor most recently.
NFIB members believe that spending must be cut now. Again,
I urge you to vote for the bipartisan motion to instruct
conferees to adopt the $26 billion in spending cuts passed by
the Senate.
Sincerely,

John J. Motley III,

Vice President,
Federal Government Relations.
____



National Taxpayers Union,

Washington, DC, April 13, 1994.
Dear Representative: The 250,000-member National Taxpayers
Union (NTU) strongly urges you to vote in favor of the Penny-
Kasich Motion to accept the $26 billion in cuts approved by
the Senate.
A bipartisan effort, led by Senators Exon and Grassley, in
the Senate Budget Committee resulted in a resolution which
includes an amendment to cut discretionary spending by $26
billion. In the House, a bipartisan team led by
Representatives John Kasich, Tim Penny, and Charlie Stenholm
is working to keep the Senate cuts intact.
While no plan to cut federal spending is painless, this
motion is an important step to avoid the greater economic
pain of deficits spiraling out of control.
The American people have sent a clear message to Congress--
cut spending and balance the budget. A vote for the Penny-
Kasich Motion proves that you hear the people and heed their
voices.
Vote YES on the Penny-Kasich Motion to preserve the Senate
cuts.
Sincerely,
Jill Lancelot,
Director, Congressional Affairs.
____

Committee For a Responsible


Federal Budget,

Washington, DC, April 11, 1994.
Dear Former Colleague: This week, the House is expected to
vote on a resolution to be offered by Representatives Penny,
Kasich, Stenholm and others. The resolution will instruct
House Conferees to agree, in the conference on the budget
resolution to the Exon/Grassley amendment, to cut spending
and the deficit.
We believe that now, while the economy is growing,
unemployment is declining, interest rates are edging up and
inflation fears are surfacing, is the optimum time to do more
to reduce Federal spending and the deficit. We urge you,
therefore, to support the Penny/Kasich/Stenholm resolution
and other serious proposals to achieve that goal. Let us know
what we can do to support your efforts toward that end.
Best regards,
Robert N. Giaimo.
Henry Beilmon.
____



The Seniors Coalition,

April 12, 1994.
Dear Member of Congress: We at The Seniors Coalition, a
non-profit, non-partisan organization representing over
2,000,000 members and supporters in all fifty states, support
budget cuts in pork-barrel discretionary spending in order to
protect the Social Security Trust Funds.
Accordingly, we urge you to help protect Social Security by
supporting the Penny-Kasich motion to preserve the Senate's
$26.1 billion in spending reductions over five passed in S.
Con. Res. 63.
How do spending cuts and progress toward a balanced budget
help Social Security?
Currently, Social Security is operating with a cash reserve
of less than 2 years. Some claim that today's high FICA taxes
are creating a much larger surplus to ``cushion'' the system
when the ``baby boomer'' generation retires, but where is the
money?
The answer is that it has been ``borrowed'' by the
government through U.S. bonds to finance the federal deficit.
Many in Congress claim that these ``I.O.U.s'' will be paid
back to Social Security to meet the needs of tomorrow's
retirees, but when a nation has a debt of over 4 trillion,
and not a penny has been paid back since the last balanced
budget in 1969, can we trust Social Security's future to a
government IOU?
The farther into debt the nation falls, the less likely we
will ever pay off the nation's debt to the Social Security
Trust Fund. Future benefits (guaranteed by the then worthless
bonds) will have to be paid for with higher taxes or benefit
cuts.
Balancing the budget would mean no additional government
bonds to finance the deficit, and no more ``borrowing'' from
the Social Security Trust Fund. This would truly protect the
future of our nation's retirees.
The Penny-Kasich motion is an excellent start. If we can't
cut $26.1 billion today, what kind of future do we have. What
kind of future does Social Security have. Please think of
that before you vote. Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Jake Hansen,
Director of Governmental Affairs.
____


[From the Small Business Survival Committee, Apr. 4, 1994]

Legislative Alert

Dear Small Business Owner: A coalition of national
grassroots organizations are working to cut spending and save
taxpayers money, but their efforts may be wasted unless we
act now to let our voice be heard!
Recently, the U.S. Senate Budget Committee adopted a
resolution to cut $26.1 billion dollars in discretionary
spending from the budget. That means $26.1 billions of
wasteful spending taxpayers and small business owners won't
have to pay for! This measure was approved by the Senate in a
70-40 vote.
The House of Representatives is now considering a motion
offered by Rep. John Kasich (R-OH), Tim Penny (D-MN), and
Charles Stenholm (D-TX) to preserve $26 billion in spending
cuts adopted by the Senate. There is a danger that some
congressmen may try to substitute an alternative resolution
for the Kasich amendment that won't cut spending. In fact,
the $26 billion dollars in savings could be spent on new and
wasteful programs!
The voice of small business must be heard on this critical
issue! The Small Business Survival Committee believes that
spending must be cut now, not sometime in the future. All
SBSC members are urged to contact their congressional
representatives before April 12 and tell them to vote ``YES''
on the original Kasich amendment.
Your congressional representative can be reached at
202.224.3121 (Capitol switchboard), or through your local
district office.
Thank you for your effort. Every day small business owners
have to make tough financial decisions--its about time
Congress does the same. Your voice counts!
Sincerely,
Karen Kerrigan,
President.
____


[From the Heritage Foundation Backgrounder, Apr. 12, 1994]

How Domestic Cuts Can Pay for the Exon-Grassley Budget Amendment

(Updating Backgrounder No. 931, ``The Clinton Challenge
Answered,'' March 5, 1993)
This week, lawmakers in the House will debate whether to
adopt the Exon-Grassley amendment to the Administration's
fiscal year 1995 budget. This Senate-passed amendment,
sponsored by Senators James Exon (D-NE) and Chuck Grassley
(R-IA), requires $26 billion in unspecified cuts from
discretionary spending over the next five years, with all of
the savings to be applied to deficit reduction. Critics of
the amendment claim that cutting what amounts to $1 from
every $320 of federal spending will result in draconian
reductions in sensitive programs. Such claims are little more
than variations on the ``Washington Monument Ploy,'' in which
bureaucrats and politicians mobilize public opinion against
budget cuts by warning that an agency's most visible program
might be shut down.
Since the House-passed budget did not contain a similar
measure, the differences between the two bills will have to
be worked out in a conference committee composed of leading
budgeteers from the House and Senate. As it now stands, the
House conferees will argue for stripping the Senate language
from the budget. But a bipartisan team, led by
Representatives John Kasich (R-OH), Tim Penny (D-MN), and
Charles Stenholm (D-TX) has drafted a motion to instruct
House conferees to maintain the discretionary spending cuts
approved by the Senate.
The Kasich-Penny-Stenholm effort faces stiff opposition
from many camps, including the White House. Oddly, the
principal argument used by the White House is that this tiny
cut in federal spending will have a serious impact on an
already shrinking defense budget. Such claims are erroneous.
There is no need to touch defense spending to meet the
requirements of the Exon-Grassley amendment. Lawmakers could
easily find the necessary cuts in the fattened domestic
discretionary area of federal spending. Any claims to the
contrary are simply thinly veiled attempts by the White House
to protect its new spending initiatives--which Clinton calls
``investments.''
There are three common arguments against the Exon-Grassley
spending cuts:
Claim #1. Because of last year's deficit reduction bill,
spending is under control, so no further spending cuts are
needed.
Wrong. According to the Administration's own budget,
released in February, total federal spending will grow by
$370 billion over the next five years, to a level of $1.85
trillion in fiscal 1999. This hike in spending exceeds the
$340 billion increase in the budget over the past five years.
Clinton's own budget figures show that he will become one
of the biggest spending Presidents in history. And since
defense spending is projected to fall in nominal terms by
some $22 billion by 1999, all of the growth in government is
on the domestic side of the federal budget. After adjusting
for inflation, domestic spending (excluding net interest and
savings and loan bailout costs) will grow 14 percent more in
four years under Bill Clinton than it did during the twelve
years of Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan combined.
By fiscal 1997, aggregate domestic spending will exceed 15
percent of gross domestic product (GDP). By contrast, the
entire government consumed only 17.6 percent of GDP at the
beginning of the Great Society era in 1965.
Claim #2. The 1993 budget deal placed tight caps on
discretionary spending; more cuts would force the gutting of
essential programs.
Wrong. The ``hard'' freeze in overall discretionary
spending gives the illusion of austerity, but actually allows
for a boost in domestic spending at the expense of the
defense budget. Domestic discretionary spending currently
stands at over $247 billion, the highest level in history,
even after adjusting for inflation. This level is $19 billion
higher than George Bush's last budget and some $79 billion
higher than Reagan's last budget. For the big spenders who
have enjoyed such large increases in domestic discretionary
spending, any reasonable restraints in spending would seem
``draconian.''
Since Reagan's last budget in fiscal 1989, defense spending
has declined $61 billion, in 1993 constant dollars. Half of
these cuts have gone toward deficit reduction, but the other
half have funded increases in domestic discretionary
spending.
Because of these trends, the end result of six years of
collective Bush-Clinton spending decisions will be that
domestic discretionary spending in fiscal 1996 will surpass
defense spending for the first time. This is quite an
achievement considering that defense spending exceeded all
domestic spending by 30 percent at the time young Bill
Clinton posed with President Kennedy in the White House Rose
Garden.
If lawmakers are serious about cutting spending in order to
reduce the deficit, they can easily find $26 billion in cuts
over five years from the bloated domestic part of the
discretionary budget. Indeed, for those who are looking for
cuts, the Congressional Budget Office last month released its
annual guide, ``Reducing the Deficit: Spending and Revenue
Options.'' This publication contains hundreds of possible
spending cut measures, all of which seem to have been omitted
from last year's deficit reduction package. The following
examples, totaling nearly $52 billion, would be more than
sufficient to comply with the Exon-Grassley amendment:
Claim #3. The Exon-Grassley cuts are not specific, and
lawmakers will have to take all or most of the savings out of
defense spending.
Wrong. Defense spending has been cut to the bone, the
Washington's big spenders are not using this fact to protect
their own pork barrel programs. This ploy worries many
Members who rightfully believe that defense spending has been
cut far below what is prudent for the nation's defense needs.
Indeed, the Clinton budget projects that by fiscal 1999,
defense spending will fall to 2.9 percent of GDP, the lowest
level since the 1930s. The Clinton Administration's five-year
defense budget is already $100 billion short of the amount
needed to fund the forces called for in its own defense plan.
These cuts in defense spending over the next five years are
especially severe when compared with the disproportionately
large increases in aggregate domestic spending during the
same period. Adjusting for inflation (in 1993 dollars), every
$1 decline in defense spending is met by a $2.42 increase in
domestic spending. This means that Washington is poised to
spend a ``peace dividend'' twice, not return it to Americans
in the form of tax relief. Under these conditions, lawmakers
should ferret out every dollar of wasteful spending from
domestic programs before they turn to defense for more cuts.
House lawmakers should think twice before rejecting the
Exon-Grassley amendment to cut a mere $26 billion from
federal spending over the next five years. Indeed, they
should ignore the scare tactics used by critics at the White
House who are trying to protect wasteful domestic spending at
the expense of an already anemic defense budget. If members
need suggestions on where to cut domestic spending, they need
look no further than the find work of their own Congressional
Budget Office.

Scott A. Hodge,

Grover M. Hermann Fellow in
Federal Budgetary Affairs.

