 President, I rise today in opposition to the
conference report accompanying H.R. 3355, the so-called crime bill. It
was my sincere hope that the Senate-House conferees would report a bill
worthy of the American people who are fed up with violent crime.
Unfortunately, even after a second round, the conference report has
lost its identity as a law enforcement bill and more closely resembles
a new social stimulus package for the Democrats.
The President and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle had a
wake-up call when the House originally voted against the conference
report. The President immediately launched a public relations campaign
to salvage the crime bill which had been appropriately stalled because
of excessive Federal spending. President Clinton and his aides blamed
the Republicans in strong terms for inaction on the crime bill.
However, the White House was forced to change strategies when the
American people said no to the social spending measure which the
President was trying to revive.
Despite efforts by the Clinton administration, the public did not
rise to support a social spending plan under the guise of law
enforcement. The American people largely disagreed with the President
and demanded that Congress fix the crime bill to focus its priorities
on law enforcement. So over the course of several days, the President
changed his message from blaming the Republicans to one of calling for
bipartisan negotiations.
Mr. President, there should be no mistake about this, the Republican
party was initially dismissed by the Democrats when they were drafting
the crime conference report. Later, they tried to force it through the
House of Representatives, again with indifference toward the minority
party. It is clear that the Democrats had no intention of allowing
meaningful participation in this debate until a significant number of
their own party joined Republicans to bring reason to the legislative
process. It was at that point the Democratic Party had to negotiate on
a number of items in the crime bill with the Republicans.
Where the Democrats had rejected a Republican measure for HIV testing
of accused rapists, begrudgingly they now had to accept it. Where the
Democrats had rejected our proposal to favorably amend the rules of
evidence concerning prior offenses of rape and child abuse, they now
had to accept it. Where the Democrats had rejected our proposal
requiring mandatory restitution to victims of violent crimes, they now
had to accept it. Where the Democrats had rejected our effective
language on notification to residents when sexual offenders are
released into their community, they now had to accept it. Where the
Democrats had rejected a proposal to prosecute 14-year-olds as adults
for certain violent crimes, they now had to accept it.
Also, the Democrats had to acknowledge through negotiations that
there was an excessive and often duplicative amount of Federal spending
for social programs in the conference report. Scrambling for votes to
gain passage, the White House and Democratic leaders agreed to
reductions in a few of their social programs in the crime bill. This
was an incremental process with compromise on pork spending inching
along only to the point where they had enough votes for passage.

Mr. President, after a long weekend of meetings, discussions and
negotiations, the House trimmed only $3.3 billion from the original
cost to be borne by the taxpayers of $33.5 billion.
There are many social programs funded through this bill which have
been euphemistically called crime prevention programs. There is almost
$7 billion allocated for so-called prevention programs which will do
little to reduce violent crime. The expenditures authorized in the
conference report harken back to the costly and ineffective programs of
the Great Society.
The social welfare spending in the conference report should not be
adopted under the guise of law enforcement. One example of excessive
social spending in the crime conference report is the Local Partnership
Act. This provision will allow President Clinton to hand out $1.6
billion to local governments just prior to the 1996 elections for
supposedly crime prevention programs. There have been no hearings on
this proposal and essentially there are only vague requirements on how
this money will be used to prevent crime.
Another example of scarce law enforcement resources the Democrats
wanted for superfluous social spending in the conference report is the
Youth Employment and Skills Crime Prevention Program. Fortunately, we
were able to finally remove this provision from the conference report.
Here, you had a proposal to give a check for $900 million to the
Secretary of Labor to hand out for job training, apprenticeships and
job experience targeted at youth. Mr. President, this sounds appealing
but I hasten to point out that there are currently 154 overlapping
Federal employment and training programs which are administered by 14
separate Federal departments and agencies. There are no fewer than 50
different offices within these departments and agencies running these
programs with $25 billion which was budgeted for fiscal year 1994.
Despite the $25 billion which had already been allocated, the original
conference report would have thrown an additional $900 million at this
extensive job training system. As I stated earlier, this is one program
that the Democrats were forced to abandon to bargain for votes on final
passage.
Additionally, the Model Intensive Grant Program within the conference
report is another expenditure of tax dollars for social programs having
little to do with reducing violent crime. Under this program, President
Clinton's administration would have nearly total discretion to give
away $625 million in grants for 15 programs on crime prevention. The
criteria for receiving money under this program are very general,
allowing recipients to assert even the most tenuous links to crime
prevention. Further, under this proposal, the Clinton administration
selects 15 areas to begin distributing this largess all prior to the
1966 elections.
Some of the arguments that I have heard in support of this type of
spending are on behalf of America's youth. There are approprite
measures that we can adopt and have adopted to target at-risk youth. In
fact, the GAO recently reported that there are already seven Federal
departments sponsoring 266 prevention programs for at-risk youth. Of
these 266 programs, 31 are administered by the Department of Education,
92 by the Department of Health and Human Services, and 117 by the
Justice Department. The GAO found that current Government programs
reflect a massive Federal effort on behalf of troubled youth. The GAO
report stated the following:

Taken together, the scope and number of multi-agency
programs show that the government is responsive to the needs
of these young people * * * [It] is apparent from the federal
activities and response that the needs of delinquent youth
are being taken quite seriously.

Mr. President, clearly the Federal Government is already spending
billions of dollars for delinquent youth. There is room for appropriate
Federal programs--and we have passed many--to target delinquent and at-
risk youth. Before billions more are authorized, the Congress should
debate and determine whether the hard-earned tax dollars of the
American people are best spent on more social programs. I do not
believe that we should ask the American taxpayers to spend billions in
the conference report in such a haphazard manner.
I am pleased that a number of House Republican members were able to
have some positive changes made to the conference report. Almost $3.5
billion in Federal spending was cut from the crime bill only after the
Democrats had to compromise to ensure passage. This is a good start,
but there remains a significant amount of social spending in the crime
bill which should be removed. The crime bill continues to be topheavy
in 1960's style social spending, and we have an opportunity to right
this wrong and produce a crime bill worthy of the American people.
Mr. President, I have been working for years to pass a tough crime
bill to assist law enforcement and to reduce the level of violence in
this country. There are a number of provisions in this crime bill which
should be passed to address violent crime. We need an enforceable
Federal death penalty and increased penalties for violent crime. We
need mandatory life sentences for conviction on a third violent felony
and other important measures in this bill.
It is unfortunate that a Federal crime control plan is being held
hostage by social programs which will cost the American taxpayers
billions and billions of dollars. The message that I have received from
the good people of South Carolina and others across the country is for
the Congress to adopt a true crime fighting proposal and not a social
welfare bill. the American public wants a crime bill that will address
violent crime with tough law enforcement measures and not a return to
excessive spending on Federal programs.
I will oppose this conference report and continue to work for an
effective crime fighting plan that deserves our support and has the
support of the American people.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
Mr. HARKIN addressed the Chair.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Feingold). The Senator from Iowa.
