 Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding me this
time.
Mr. Chairman, the Solomon budget ensures we can meet a balanced
budget amendment by cutting waste by fiscal year 1999, and America can
understand that, while the Clinton budget leaves us way off the mark,
in fact, about $6 trillion off the mark in terms of the national debt.
The Solomon balanced budget provides for a specific realistic
blueprint for achieving a balanced budget, and even recording a surplus
into the next century.
This is not a vague pronouncement of principle. This is tough cuts.
It is hard choices, and it is real deficit reduction.
Of course, we all find difficult the tradeoffs on this list of more
than 500 line item budget cuts. Clearly each of us might have done a
list a little differently as we are hearing in this debate. I, in fact,
have done House Resolution 377, called the Spirit of '76, and it is a
list of 76 cuts that does not touch Social Security, does not touch
Medicare, does not touch Medicaid, does not touch veterans' benefits,
but does cut $285 billion over 5 years.
Fortunately, many of my cuts are included in the Solomon substitute.
Clearly, each Member might prefer cutting more in one area in the
interests of maintaining more resources in another area. That is what
this is about. That is why we asked in the Committee on Rules to have a
deliberate process in considering the Solomon budget where any Member
could have sought to substitute one cut for another as long as the
total value of the deficit reduction achieved by the package was not
reduced.
Even though the Committee on Rules declined to give us that
flexibility, I hope my colleagues will agree that this package does
represent a breakthrough in the campaign to bring our Federal budget
into balance by cutting.
This package deserves our support. Seventy percent of America is
telling us, ``Balance the budget.''
Now is the time. We can vote for a true balanced budget plan.
And in the reported words of the gentlewoman from the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania from across the aisle, ``We are putting our money where
our mouth is,'' and we urge our colleagues from both sides of the aisle
to follow that advice as well.
