 Madam President, I rise in support of the Harkin-Jeffords
amendment. This amendment will restore funding for solar and renewable
research and development to the amount recommended in President
Clinton's budget.
I want to thank Senator Harkin for offering his amendment, because I
believe that our country's renewable energy program is at a watershed.
With support from Congress and the Federal Government, we can forge
ahead with sustainable development based upon appropriate, renewable
technologies. We can position our renewable industry to capture its
share of the rapidly expanding market for solar technology. And, we can
provide power in an environmentally responsible way.
Or, we can retreat from this promising growth industry, as we did
throughout the decade of the 1980's, and watch our international
competitors carve up a market that will exceed a billion dollars by the
turn of the century.
Should we allow our renewable initiatives to sputter and stall? Or,
do we move forward, as other countries are doing, and make essential
investments in technologies that will create new jobs, open export
markets, and promote a quality environment? This is the choice we will
make when we vote on this amendment.
At stake is our ability to compete in an international energy market
that will experience explosive growth in the years ahead. An estimated
75 percent of the population in the developing world still lives
without electricity. Many local governments cannot afford to meet the
growing energy demand by building, operating, and maintaining
centralized power plants and the costly infrastructure associated with
them. The flexibility offered by renewable energy technologies is a
natural fit.
The administration's fiscal year 1995 budget request for solar and
renewable energy was carefully crafted to provide a balanced portfolio
of research, development, and export promotion for the coming fiscal
year. Unfortunately, the bill we are considering today upsets this
delicate balance. The $29 million cut, from a proposed budget of $300
million, represents a significant step backward at a time when the
Clinton administration wants to accelerate renewable energy
development, and to integrate these technologies into the energy grid.
The past decade was a period of unparalleled success in the drive to
reduce the cost of solar and renewable technology. Some are on the
verge of becoming cost-competitive with conventional energy sources.
This trend will continue to improve in the years ahead. As prices
continue to drop, the rate at which these technologies are integrated
into the energy grid will steadily increase.
The efficiency that has been achieved in generating power from
renewable technologies is simply remarkable. In the case of wind
energy, the typical cost per kilowatt hour was 35 cents in 1980. Today,
wind-generated electricity costs 5 to 8 cents per kilowatt hour.
Electricity generated from photovoltaics cost 90-cents-per-kilowatt-
hour in 1980. Today, the average cost is 30 cents. By the end of the
decade, photovoltaic generating costs could drop by an additional 50
percent. It is no wonder that the Energy Information Agency is
projecting an annual growth rate through the year 2010 of 1.8 percent
for renewables--which is higher than any other power source.
What is at stake is the ability of a young, but dynamic industry to
capture world markets for renewable technologies so that Americans can
hold their share of rewarding, high paying jobs in the future. That is
what the Harkin amendment is all about. If we are to move into the
future with a strong economy and a healthy environment, renewable
energy technologies must be a part of our investment portfolio.
today, the value of U.S. renewable energy exports exceeds a quarter
of a billion dollars. But the U.S. industry is barely penetrating the
expanding world market for renewable energy technologies. This is a
direct result of a weak commitment to renewable energy research,
development, and export promotion. A 1992 Department of Energy report
found that the United States ranks lowest in the amount of resources it
commits to solar and renewable export promotion, compared with seven
leading trading nations.
I support the Harkin amendment because I want to reverse this trend.
Frankly, I would have preferred higher spending levels for solar and
renewable programs, but that is not realistic given the budget
constraints we face. Unless we maintain the funding level recommended
by the Clinton administration, we will continue to lose ground, and
should not be surprised if other countries out-compete U.S. industry in
this rapidly expanding market.
This is something that we need to do. We need to adopt the Harkin-
Jeffords amendment, and I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
