 President, this amendment expresses the sense of
the Congress regarding the proposed budget for the Indian Health
Service. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Senate Budget
Committee, Senator Sasser, and the distinguished ranking member of the
committee, Senator Domenici, for their assistance and support for this
amendment.
Very simply stated, I am offering this amendment because I am
concerned about the ability of the Indian Health Service to fully meet
the health care needs of American Indians in my home State of New
Mexico and throughout the country. The amendment reflects my belief
that the Congress and the administration should work together toward
the goal of allocating sufficient funding to the Indian Health
Service--Health Services Budget--to ensure that all IHS facilities are
fully staffed with the number of health care professionals needed to
meet the needs of the American Indians and Alaska Natives who depend on
the IHS for health care. In addition, the amendment states that
sufficient funding should be provided to the IHS's facilities budget to
ensure that basic public health and safety and sanitation requirements
on Indian lands can be met through timely and proper water
infrastructure construction and upgrades.
Over the past few months, many Indian tribal leaders have contacted
me to express their apprehensions about the administration's decision
to cut 460 positions--``FTEs''--from the Indian Health Service's staff
over the next 2 fiscal years. Pueblo Governors and tribal leaders from
New Mexico have told me that a cut of this magnitude--nearly 8 percent
of all IHS employees--could irrevocably harm an already inadequate
system of health care for American Indians unless adequate safeguards
are in place. As a Senator from New Mexico, I am particularly
apprehensive about the newly constructed IHS hospital in Shiprock, NM,
which is scheduled to open this summer. We need to ensure that this
facility does not open underequipped and understaffed.
Mr. President, I fully understand the need to bring Federal spending
under control. But I also share President Clinton's commitment to
health security for all Americans. It is for this reason that I am
offering this amendment. My amendment does not guarantee funding, but
it puts the administration on notice that people are concerned about
this issue and it represents a commitment by the Congress to properly
and effectively address IHS funding and staffing matters.
Too often in the past, the Federal Government has overlooked the
health care needs of American Indians. As a result, the Indian Health
Service currently meets only 45 percent of the total estimated health
care need of our Nation's 1.3 million American Indians and Alaska
Natives. Of those Indian people who do have access to care through the
Indian Health Service, many still lack adequate access to the type of
comprehensive health care embodied in the President's Health Security
Act, particularly with respect to preventive care.
Now is not the time to propose cuts in the budget of the Indian
Health Service. We simply must not let our zeal to lower the Federal
budget deficit and cut waste from the system do harm to Indian children
and families. Instead, we should be working to ensure that American
Indians have access to the basic health services they need. We need to
be working with Indian people to develop better strategies for
implementing preventive health programs, including vitally needed
alcohol abuse prevention programs, and programs aimed at reducing
diabetes and other chronic diseases among American Indians.
Mr. President, we know that when access to preventive health care
services is limited, the consequences in terms of health status and
economics are significant. Already, American Indians suffer higher
rates of fetal alcohol syndrome [FAS] and diabetes than any other
population in the United States. Each year in my own State of New
Mexico, more than 36 babies are born with FAS, compared to the national
average of 2 FAS births per 1,000 births. Even more significant, New
Mexico health officials estimate that the combined FAS rate for our
State's 22 Indian Tribes is 2 to 5 times that of the national average.
Statistics on diabetes are also grim. In New Mexico, the rate of
diabetes is nearly twice the national rate; and nationally, native
Americans are 10 times more likely to have diabetes than the non-
Hispanic white population.
In closing, I will reiterate my belief that this is not the time to
be threatening direct health services and eliminating preventive care
programs for American Indians. A wiser course of action would be to
streamline administrative services, eliminate bureaucratic waste, and
maximize existing resources through the thoughtful, mandatory
redistribution of personnel and equipment from areas of lesser need and
low productivity to areas of greater need and potential.
I believe this amendment will help us achieve these goals. I urge my
colleagues to support it and to make a commitment to working together
with Indian people toward a revitalized and efficient Indian Health
Service truly capable of meeting the health care needs of those it was
created to service.
