 Chairman, I rise in support of the Uruguay round of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade [GATT] that was submitted by
President Clinton on September 27, 1994.
The American people and Congress have repeatedly expressed their
support over the years for more open and fair trade relations with
foreign countries. The United States has been a part of the GATT since
its inception in the post-war period. Throughout the several rounds of
multi-lateral negotiations over the past half a century, the United
States has worked with the nations of the world to improve world trade:
reducing barriers and tariffs, settling disputes, and relaxing quotas.
We have always sought to improve the agreement for ourselves and for
the world.
The Uruguay round is the largest and most comprehensive trade
agreement in history. Global trade tariffs, essentially sales taxes,
are estimated to be cut by $744 billion. The agreement is estimated to
contribute $100 to $200 billion to the U.S. economy each year.
Numerous allegations have been raised as to the effort on U.S. law
such as section 301 of the trade laws which provide the U.S.
administration with the ability, authority, and responsibility to act
on matters of unfair trade. However, the implementing legislation we
consider today actually strengthens section 301 of current U.S. trade
law. It includes provisions to improve the U.S. situation vis-a-vis
dumping in global trade. The agreement moves the United States forward
by including varied services as commodities, beginning to open areas
such as tourism, law, accounting and important environmental services.
This 1994 GATT agreement importantly enhances intellectual property
protections, strengthens international rules against trade-distorting
subsidies, and authorizes the required tariff and subsidy reductions.
Nonetheless, this is not a perfect agreement. Some questions do
remain regarding the impact the World Trade Organization could have on
certain State and local laws that protect local workers, consumers or
the environment because those laws could be deemed to interfere with
world trade. We certainly have a responsibility to U.S. citizens, at
the very least, to continue to lead the world in protective laws that
prevent unnecessary disease, accidents, and even death in the workplace
and the environment. We must be prepared to ensure that this leadership
will not be taxed and have additional costs attached to it in the world
trade marketplace.
Although continued fast track authority was removed from the
legislation at this time, the bill fails to address a range of
environmental concerns raised by the round, and it offers no indication
that future U.S. trade negotiations will seek environmental reforms as
a priority. For example, we must work to ensure that legitimate local,
national and international environmental, wildlife, and animal
protection regulations will not be attacked as barriers to trade.
Frankly, the Clinton administration endorsement and signature to the
Rio Conference Agreements on global biodiversity, rain forest
preservation, global warming and earlier work on chlorofluorcarbons
[CFCs] help temper the silence in the GATT Agreement on these matters.
It should be borne in mind that those of us attempting to include
within the GATT, health, safety, environmental, labor, and human rights
concerns, are attempting to set a new policy path, a higher level of
economic and trade accords. I'm convinced that this is a proper and
appropriate agreement goal. Past GATT Agreements, however, didn't have
such focus or initiatives. Achieving the 1994 GATT Agreement with 123
nations and the U.S. is a significant accomplishment. It has been 8
years in the making. This agreement makes real progress in economic
terms. I only wish we had the leverage to do more for the host of
social, political, worker, environmental, and human rights issues that
all agree upon. Insisting upon these issues at this late date would
cause the GATT Agreement to falter and we need the fundamental reforms
inherent in GATT.
The Uruguay round is not balanced as it impacts working
Americans. While I agree that the global economy is dynamic and
American workers and companies are ready to compete and win, there are
undeniably industries and workers who will suffer as a result of the
implementation of the GATT. Textiles and apparels industries are likely
to lose millions of jobs. The dairy industry is projected to be hurt by
the Uruguay round. Industries attempting cleaner and more
environmentally sound processes could be threatened by lower cost, less
sustainable product manufacturing.

The reality is that negative effects of this GATT Agreement will fall
unevenly upon certain sectors of American workers. It is not clear that
we have ready or are prepared to put in place a safety net of
appropriate programs like Trade Adjustment Assistance [TAA] or economic
conversion efforts to assist those adversely affected. The workers and
the families whose lives will be affected because they lose their
livelihood will need our help and as we make general trade policy we
should acknowledge this specifically.
This shortfall in training for job displacement is an on-going
concern as the dynamic U.S. economy is restructured. It is imperative
that Federal policies successfully move people from one place in the
world of work to another, but surely an agreement which safeguards
skilled jobs and vocations cannot be subordinated to the lowest common
denominator of maintaining at all costs entry level positions. This is
a job question that we can and should address in general terms not only
in isolation to trade, but totally in the context of education and
training.
Finally, this GATT now asks the Congress to treat the pay-as-you-go
U.S. budget legal requirements in a special way. It is unfortunate that
even as we look to adjournment, leaving countless legislative
initiatives mangled and abandoned by partisan gridlock more concerned
with budget costs than human costs; for GATT, the numbers can be
rationalized. This is troubling to me. We have spent countless hours
debating and working very hard to reduce the Federal budget deficit.
Often, we have not been able to act as I would like on a growing
American human deficit because of the U.S. budget problems. We should
remember this willingness to bend the rules for the next decade in
comparing current costs to benefits when we look at other programs that
can help the pillars of our Nation's future, our children.
I favor this 1994 GATT Agreement. On the whole, GATT globally should
provide mutual benefits and competitive parity; and industries in
Minnesota will be better positioned generally by the Uruguay round. The
Federal Government will need to be vigilant and aggressive to assure
that GATT provides and promotes the sustainable use of our resources,
and is fair to American workers. While the U.S. must remain part of the
global economic marketplace, the relationship must be based upon common
sense and common values about the law and basic human rights.
I recognize that although the deadline for ratification is July 1,
1995, many nations are looking with high interest to the passage of the
GATT by the United States prior to consideration in their own countries
because of the informal agreement to proceed with it in January of
1995. We need to act now, today, in order to fulfill our responsibility
and remain a player and a leader in the global marketplace. I ask my
colleagues to strongly consider supporting H.R. 5110.
