 President, I rise today with very mixed feelings
about supporting this conference report. Although, I will vote for
final passage, I think my colleagues may be interested in the
circumstances leading up to a decision by all the Republicans on the
subcommittee not to sign the conference report.
During July, when the subcommittee and full committee considered the
bill, there were press reports that the administration would offer
Jordan debt relief and military assistance in return for signing an
agreement with Israel. Although I asked for information on any aid
commitment, the administration could not or would not offer any.
On Wednesday, July 27, Dennis Ross briefed the Congress on the terms
of the Israeli-Jordanian agreement and suggested the outlines of an aid
package. Thursday morning, July 28, language was suggested by the
administration for inclusion in the foreign operations bill. We
received letters from both the Secretary of State and the President
supporting what ever action the conference committee might take, but we
never actually received an official administration budget request.
Apparently, while the administration supported peace, it was not at the
price of appearing to break spending caps.
Frankly, leaving the actual action up to Congress falls just this
side of cowardice as far as this Senator is concerned. It is my view
that the administration did not want to be held politically accountable
for breaking the caps to supply foreign aid. They said it was essential
to securing peace yet did not want to pay a domestic political price.
So on Thursday afternoon the conference began with Presidential
encouragement but virtually no actual budget request, no formal
consultation, and no debate in the Senate or House on the merits of
providing Jordan with debt relief or military aid.
Many of my colleagues had legitimate concerns and serious questions
about how and what the administration was planning. With repeated
allegations that Jordan has violated the U.N. sanctions against Iraq,
many wondered why we would provide military equipment which might be
transferred to Baghdad. Others pointed out that there is no actual
peace agreement in place with Israel. I was repeatedly asked does
Jordan expect to be compensated for every step it takes along the road
to peace? Are we engaged in a pay-as-you-go plan? What kind of open-
ended commitment of U.S. resources have been made without a peace
agreement?

As questions emerged during the day on Jordan, the members of the
conference were presented with a second unannounced request. Late in
the evening, my recollection is around 11 p.m. we were handed a piece
of paper requesting $50 million in emergency refugee and disaster aid
for Rwanda.
Given the conditions in Rwanda, the conferees were put in the
position of supporting the funding or being accused of thwarting vital
relief efforts. Unfortunately, given the lack of consultation and
information at the late hour, the conferees could not establish if
there was some way to fund the request without resorting to an
emergency designation, thereby once again, breaking budget ceilings.
Mr. President, members of the subcommittee take the consultation
process seriously and I think it is unfortunate that on two matters of
significant national interest, the administration basically blind-sided
the Congress. To express our collective and strong opposition to this
sloppy, inappropriate and irresponsible approach to consultation and
funding requests, no Republican signed the conference report.
In addition to objections about the administration's failure to
adequately consult on these important matters, I want to draw my
colleagues attention to a number of concerns I have about specific
provisions in the bill. First, my colleagues should understand that on
every major, controversial issue including many on which we held
recorded votes, the Senate did not prevail in conference.
Let me begin with the Senate's 89-8 vote on Russian troop withdrawal
from the Baltics. It was clear that our vote produced an immediate
breakthrough on the stalled negotiations between Estonia and Russia.
Nonetheless, the administration working closely with the majority, on a
party line vote, managed to have the provision stripped. Apparently, it
was offensive to the Russians.
Similarly, binding earmarks for Armenian and Ukraine were diluted in
spite of widespread bipartisan support in the Senate.
The Senate voted 100-0 to fund FBI and local police investigative
training programs out of the belief that narcotics trafficking,
counterfeiting, and prospects of nuclear terrorism in the NIS posed a
direct threat here at home. In conference the provision was watered
down.
The Senate's strong support of an amendment permitting the
Administration to provide assistance to Poland, Hungary, and the Czech
Republic to move them along the road to NATO admission was stripped
from the bill. Keep in mind this authority was permissive, not
mandatory, and it was still removed from the bill.
At every turn, on every continent, and most every issue the
administration and the majority diluted or defeated language which the
Senate had supported.
On a number of these, in particular the funding levels for Armenia
and Ukraine, I intend to make sure the administration follows through
and observes congressional intent. Let me note that since conference,
many members, including the Republican leader, have expressed
reservations on the bill language on Armenia. I want to clarify that a
majority of the conferees view the $75 million made available for
Armenia as a floor--not a ceiling. With Armenian President Ter-
Petrossian due to arrive this week, I think he should hear directly
from Congress, if not the administration, that we intend for Armenia to
be eligible for and receive at least as much aid in fiscal year 1995 as
this past year.
A majority of the Senate conferees also agree that the funding could
and should be drawn from the NIS account in the foreign operations
bill. As we proceed with notifications on the obligation of fiscal year
1995 funds, I plan to make sure this commitment is upheld.
Mr. President, I am similarly committed to seeing adequate funding
for Ukraine. Last year, the administration strongly opposed an earmark
of $300 million for Ukraine out of the $2.5 billion package and then
turned around and announced that amount during President Kravchuk's
visit. Unfortunately, policy by press release has been just that--all
talk and no action. In 1992, 1993, and 1994, Ukraine has actually only
been provided with a little over $40 million compared with Russia's
balance of $1.6 billion. If we were going to make a positive
contribution to economic and political reform in Ukraine, we must step
up our commitment.
Mr. President, in spite of these concerns, I feel obligated to vote
for the final conference report. The bill does have a number of very
important funding provisions including our support for the Camp David
countries, the overall level of aid to the NIS, and strong promotion
for our export agencies.
It was not an easy process to complete action on this bill this year,
but I think we have done the best we could given conflicting priorities
as well as limited resources and limited flexibility in conference on
the issue of earmarking.
Having said that, I want to extend my appreciation to the chairman--I
have enjoyed working with him this year--to the majority staff, Tim
Rieser, Bill Witting, and Fred Kenney, and particularly on our side,
Juanita Rilling, Jim Bond, who is really a veteran of this process on
our side, and my long-time foreign policy advisor, Robin Cleveland, who
always does a spectacular job.
Let me say in conclusion, Mr. President, that some of this is going
to have to change. The failure to consult on Jordan and Rwanda, the
failure to sustain the Senate's position on earmarks to Ukraine,
Armenia, and Georgia, conditioning aid to Russia on an August 31 troop
withdrawal, and permission to help Poland, Hungary, and the Czech
Republic achieve entry into NATO, all of these items which the Senate
felt strongly about were added unanimously in committee or added by
large votes on the Senate floor and were lost in conference.
Next year, things are going to have to be different. When the Senate
speaks overwhelmingly on an issue, I hope that our view in conference
will be to sustain, if at all possible, the Senate position.
So, Mr. President, having said that, I yield the floor.
