
The Clerk read as follows:

Amendment offered by Mr. Hefley: Insert after section 129
the following new section:

SEC. 130. OVERALL CAP ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR
EDA

Notwithstanding any other provision of this title or any
other provision of law, not more than $412,000,000 is
authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 1995
and 1996 to carry out the Public Works and Economic
Development Act of 1965.

 2442 for the
Economic Development Administration is $10 million above the
President's request for fiscal year 1995.
The amendment I have at the desk would cut the additional $10 million
from the EDA and restore the President's funding level.
It is no secret that I am not a fan of the EDA. I think the program
is ripe for abuse.
I am also not a fan of our convoluted appropriation process. We
budget, we authorize and we appropriate. Then we conference and
reconcile. At each step, the spending seems to grow.
The authorization for the EDA is a good example. The President sent
his budget request to Congress, and he asked for a significant increase
for the EDA.
Then the Banking and Public Works Committees got together to craft a
bill, and they added a little more.
The summer, the appropriations will get their shot.
Finally, we will probably pass an emergency appropriation bill this
fall that will include still more spending.
In the end, its little wonder we have had continuous deficits for the
past 25 years.
Mr. Chairman, this amendment is an attempt to stem that tide by
rolling back the spending level for the EDA to the level budgeted by
the President.
As it is, the President's budget projects a $165 billion deficit.
There is no reason to increase that deficit, even if its just $10
million.
The amendment I have at the desk will cut a total of $10 million from
the EDA's funding for next year.
This cut includes $3 million from the salaries and expenses account,
$3 million from the grants for public works and development facilities,
$2 million from the technical assistance and economic development
planning, and $2 million from the special economic development and
adjustment assistance authorization.
In case someone is worried that these cuts are too draconian, I would
point out that if my amendment is adopted, total spending by the EDA
will increase by $163 million over the amount provided in last year's
Commerce, Justice, State appropriation bill.
Authorization for the salaries and expenses portion alone will
increase by almost $10 million.
Mr. Chairman, my amendment cuts $10 million from a program whose
funding has practically doubled in the last 2 years, it restores the
President's budget level for the EDA, and I hope the Members will
support it.
