
Mr. Chairman, I thank my colleagues for their attention today and for
their participation in this important debate.
Mr. Chairman, before I proceed I want to acknowledge the wonderful
staff support of Eric Weiss, Mike Wessel, Miles Lackey, Karen Ann
Feever, Carolyn Bartholomew, and so many other people on our staffs who
worked so very hard on this issue for such a long time. I, too, would
like to join the gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. Markey] in
recognizing the dissidents who are in the Chamber with us today.
Mr. Chairman, why are we having this debate? Why are we here today? I
contend that this debate is central and fundamental to how we proceed
into the global and international marketplace. This is a debate about
the American worker, it is a debate about human rights throughout the
world, and, in this particular case, particularly in China, it is about
how we are smart in our trade relationships and how they relate to the
proliferation of weapons.
Over the past 5 years, this House has demonstrated its concern about
the trade deficit with China, which this year will be $30 billion, and
I promise you if we do nothing today, it will surpass Japan. Second, we
are concerned about the serious repression in China and Tibet, and,
third, seriously concerned about the proliferation of weapons to
unsafeguarded countries, including the sale of weapons to the Khmer
Rouge.
In the speaker's remarks, it was curious to me he made two points. He
said first, China was cooperating with us on North Korea; the Chinese
military is not. The military has pledged 82,000 troops in case of war
to the North Korean armed forces, and also pledged food and energy and
credit assistance in case of U.N. sanctions. So let us be straight
about what China is doing.
Why is it that people in our midst here wish to ignore the violations
in our trade relationship, in our proliferation arrangements, and, yes,
indeed, even on the question of human rights?
I said earlier that I did not believe that the Hamilton amendment did
that much. I do not think it does. So I think it is very possible for
Members to vote for that. It does nothing to negate voting also for the
Pelosi amendment. So I hope some Members will register their support
also for my legislation.
Why is that? Is it a difficult thing to ask our colleagues that they
vote not to give a tax break to the Chinese military, the same Chinese
military where these three issues converge, who are proliferating
weapons, who are repressing people in China and Tibet, and flooding our
markets with their products, many of them made by prison labor, because
the Chinese military oversees a great deal of the prison labor camps
itself?
Is it too much to say the American taxpayer should not be subsidizing
the proliferation of weapons into the Third World and to unsafeguarded
countries? Is it too much to say do not subsidize the Chinese military
when they are the oppressors in China?
Well, we have heard all of that. I think that in 3 years, if we do
nothing today, we will look back and say, how did this trade deficit
get to this point?
So I am asking my colleagues to vote in favor of the American worker,
to get the American consumer off the hook for unwittingly subsidizing
the Chinese military, and, as I said, help the American worker by
promoting human rights abroad.
Once again I want to thank my colleagues for their attention, both
here today and their courtesies in the course of this deliberation.
