 Chairman, I move to strike the requisite number of
words, and I rise in opposition to the amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this amendment. This is a good
appropriation bill with regards to the housing, urban development
budget, and funding that the chairman brings to the House. The fact is,
we do not get anything for nothing.
What this Smith amendment purports to do is say we can house all the
same people with a rental voucher for 5 years as we could if we
constructed the units of housing. Naturally, the truth is, at the end
of this day, at the end of the period for the vouchers, we end up with
a bunch of rent receipts, as opposed to real public housing.
Some of the gentlemen from the other side of the aisle suggested that
public housing does not last for 5 years. I can point out numerous
public housing projects in my own district of St. Paul, MN, that, in
fact, are close to 50 years old, in very good shape because of the
modernization funds that are in this bill and will help other housing
authorities do the same thing, and working and dynamic public housing,
meeting the needs today and in the future. Not all public housing has
the problems that occur in a city or in some of the troubled projects
that the gentleman has talked about.
Housing, public housing is one of the most successful programs that
we have in the Nation, that is a matter of fact.
Of course, we can concentrate on the problems but we are missing the
main point in terms of how this program works. The fact is that the
General Accounting Office and others have done studies and analysis for
the Congress on this particular purpose. And they found out and they
demonstrated for the Congress that it gave us the most housing per
dollar. The fact is, this public housing will last 30, 40, 50 years.
Obviously, it has to be maintained and properly managed. If we have a
poorly constructed or designed building, it will not last that long.
The truth is, of course, that we do not need either public housing or
voucher rather; we need both of these programs. Obviously a section 8
voucher and the improved program that exist today, worked on by the
various committees, does serve a very, very important function. It
serves a need. Obviously, in various markets, there is not the vacancy
rate that occurs in other markets. Some markets have a very large
vacancy rate. Others have a very small one. Besides that, the type of
public housing units we have may have two, three, four bedrooms in them
in order to accommodate the size of the families that are experiencing
difficulty for a short period of time. That has to be recognized. Most
apartment buildings and other types of housing do not accommodate that
type of family.
They have rules dealing with children. They have rules dealing with a
variety of other activities that obviously do not accommodate public
housing residents.


The point is that public housing saves the taxpayers money. We have
done studies on this. The GAO has done studies. It saves money. Is
every individual project a success, no. But by and large, they are.
That is why we have these projects remaining.
Furthermore, as we eliminate or replace public housing, we are losing
some of the units. It is necessary, therefore, to have a modest program
of reconstruction to maintain an adequate level of public housing. We
have in this country serious problems with regards to housing. At the
request of the Speaker, I led a task force on which the gentleman from
Massachusetts and others served dealing with hopelessness. It pointed
out that 7 percent of the people in this country, sometime during their
life, had been homeless.
We have a serious problem with regards to adequate shelter in this
Nation. Public housing plays a key role. The gentlemen are simply
mistaken in trying to portray this section 8 voucher-program as a
savings to the taxpayer. This is not a savings to the taxpayer at all.
The public housing gives us the best for the buck in terms of housing
and meeting the needs of people, Mr. Chairman. The amendment cuts over
one-quarter of a billion dollars from public housing for the poor--that
doesn't help, that hurts the people who have real need.
I would urge the Members, therefore, to reject this amendment. I
think it is ill-considered and ill-conceived.
