

 President, I ask that the Chair lay before the
Senate a message from the House of Representatives on a bill (S. 3)
entitled the ``Congressional Spending Limit and Election Reform Act of
1993.''
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message
from the House of Representatives.
Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 3) entitled
``An Act entitled the `Congressional Spending Limit and
Election Reform Act of 1993''', do pass with the following
amendments:
Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert:

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``House of
Representatives Campaign Spending Limit and Election Reform
Act of 1993''.
(c) Table of Contents.--

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.

TITLE I--CONTROL OF CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN SPENDING

Subtitle A--[Reserved]

Subtitle B--Expenditure Limitations, Contribution Limitations, and
Voter Communication Vouchers for Eligible House of Representatives
Candidates

Sec. 121. Provisions applicable to eligible House of Representatives
candidates.
Sec. 122. Registration as eligible House of Representatives candidate.
Sec. 123. Definitions.

TITLE II--LIMITATIONS ON POLITICAL COMMITTEE AND LARGE DONOR
CONTRIBUTIONS THAT MAY BE ACCEPTED BY HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
CANDIDATES

Sec. 201. Limitations on political committee and large donor
contributions that may be accepted by House of
Representatives candidates.

TITLE III--INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES

Sec. 301. Clarification of definitions relating to independent
expenditures.
Sec. 302. Reporting requirements for certain independent expenditures.
Sec. 303. Broadcast and cable independent expenditure communications
against eligible House of Representatives candidates.

TITLE IV--CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENDITURES BY POLITICAL PARTY COMMITTEES

Sec. 401. Definitions.
Sec. 402. Contributions to political party committees.
Sec. 403. Provisions relating to national, State, and local party
committees.
Sec. 404. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 405. Restrictions on fundraising by candidates and officeholders.
Sec. 406. Increase in authorized political committee contributions to
congressional campaign committees.
Sec. 407. Increase in the amount that multicandidate political
committees may contribute to national political party
committees.
Sec. 408. Merchandising and affinity cards.
Sec. 409. Increased limitation amount for certain contributions to
political committees of State political parties.

TITLE V--CONTRIBUTIONS

Sec. 501. Restrictions on bundling.
Sec. 502. Contributions by dependents not of voting age.
Sec. 503. Prohibition of acceptance by a candidate of cash
contributions from any one person aggregating more than
$100.
Sec. 504. Contributions to candidates from State and local committees
of political parties to be aggregated.
Sec. 505. Prohibition of false representation to solicit contributions.
Sec. 506. Limited exclusion of advances by campaign workers from the
definition of the term ``contribution''.
Sec. 507. Amendment to section 316 of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971.
Sec. 508. Prohibition of certain election-related activities of foreign
nationals.

TITLE VI--REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 601. Change in certain reporting from a calendar year basis to an
election cycle basis.
Sec. 602. Personal and consulting services.
Sec. 603. Reduction in threshold for reporting of certain information
by persons other than political committees.
Sec. 604. Computerized indices of contributions.
Sec. 605. Identification.
Sec. 606. Political committees.
Sec. 607. Use of candidates' names.
Sec. 608. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 609. Simultaneous registration of candidate and candidate's
principal campaign committee.

TITLE VII--FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

Sec. 701. Appearance as amici curiae.
Sec. 702. Federal Election Commission public service announcements.
Sec. 703. Authority to seek injunction.
Sec. 704. Expedited procedures.
Sec. 705. Insolvent political committees.

TITLE VIII--BALLOT INITIATIVE COMMITTEES

Sec. 801. Definitions relating to ballot initiatives.
Sec. 802. Amendment to definition of contribution.
Sec. 803. Amendment to definition of expenditure.
Sec. 804. Organization of ballot initiative committees.
Sec. 805. Registration of ballot initiative committees.
Sec. 806. Reporting by ballot initiative committees.
Sec. 807. Enforcement for ballot initiative committees.
Sec. 808. Prohibition on contributions and expenditures by ballot
initiative committees.

TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 901. Broadcast rates and preemption.
Sec. 902. Campaign advertising amendments.
Sec. 903. Telephone voting by persons with disabilities.
Sec. 904. Transfer of presidential election financing provisions to
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971.

TITLE X--HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES CAMPAIGN ELECTION FUNDING AND RELATED
MATTERS

Sec. 1001. Make Democracy Work Election Fund.

TITLE XI--EFFECTIVE DATES; SEVERABILITY

Sec. 1101. Effective date.
Sec. 1102. Severability.
Sec. 1103. Expedited review of constitutional issues.
Sec. 1104. Regulations.
Sec. 1105. Budget neutrality.
TITLE I--CONTROL OF CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN SPENDING
Subtitle A--[Reserved]
Subtitle B--Expenditure Limitations, Contribution Limitations, and
Voter Communication Vouchers for Eligible House of Representatives
Candidates

SEC. 121. PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ELIGIBLE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES CANDIDATES.

(a) In General.--The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
is amended by adding at the end the following new title:
``TITLE VI--EXPENDITURE LIMITATIONS, CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS, AND
VOTER COMMUNICATION VOUCHERS FOR ELIGIBLE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
CANDIDATES

``SEC. 601. EXPENDITURE LIMITATIONS.

``(a) In General.--An eligible House of Representatives
candidate may not, in an election cycle, make expenditures
aggregating more than $600,000.
``(b) Runoff Election and Special Election Amounts.--
``(1) Runoff election amount.--If an eligible House of
Representatives candidate is a candidate in a runoff
election, the candidate may make additional expenditures
aggregating not more than $200,000 in the election cycle.
``(2) Special election amount.--An eligible House of
Representatives candidate who is a candidate in a special
election may make expenditures aggregating not more than
$600,000 with respect to the special election.
``(c) Closely Contested Primary.--If, as determined by the
Commission, an eligible House of Representatives candidate in
a contested primary election wins that primary election by a
margin of 20 percentage points or less, the candidate may
make additional expenditures aggregating not more than
$200,000 in the election cycle.
``(d) Nonparticipating Opponent Provisions.--
``(1) Limitation exception.--The limitations imposed by
subsections (a) and (b) do not apply in the case of an
eligible House of Representatives candidate if any other
general election candidate seeking nomination or election to
that office--
``(A) is not an eligible House of Representatives
candidate; and
``(B) receives contributions or makes expenditures in
excess of 25 percent of the limitation under subsection (a).
``(2) Continued eligibility and additional matching
funds.--An eligible House of Representatives candidate
referred to in paragraph (1)--
``(A) shall continue to be eligible for all benefits under
this title; and
``(B) shall receive voter communication vouchers under
section 604.
``(3) Reporting requirement.--A candidate for the office of
Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to,
the Congress--
``(A) who is not an eligible House of Representatives
candidate; and
``(B) who makes contributions in excess of $50,000 of
personal funds of the candidate and members of the
candidate's immediate family to the authorized committee of
the candidate or receives contributions or makes expenditures
in excess of 25 percent of the limitation under subsection
(a);

shall report that the threshold has been reached to the Clerk
of the House of Representatives not later than 48 hours after
reaching the threshold. The Clerk shall transmit a report
received under this paragraph to the Commission as soon as
possible (but no later than 4 working hours of the
Commission) after such receipt, and the Commission shall
transmit a copy to each other candidate for election to the
same office within 48 hours of receipt.
``(e) Exemption for Legal Costs and Taxes.--Any costs
incurred by an eligible House of Representatives candidate or
his or her authorized committee, or a Federal officeholder,
for legal services or Federal, State, or local income and
payroll taxes with respect to a candidate's authorized
committees, or to comply with section 606, shall not be
considered in the computation of amounts subject to
limitation under this section.
``(f) Exemption for Accounting or Fundraising Costs.--
``(1) Any costs incurred by an eligible House of
Representatives candidate or his or her authorized committee
in connection with the solicitation of contributions on
behalf of such candidate or for accounting services to ensure
compliance with this Act shall not be considered in the
computation of amounts subject to limitation under subsection
(a) to the extent that the aggregate of such costs does not
exceed 10 percent of the limitation under subsection (a).
``(2) An amount equal to 10 percent of salaries and
overhead expenditures of an eligible House of Representatives
candidate's campaign headquarters and offices shall not be
considered in the computation of amounts subject to
limitation under this section. Any amount excluded under this
paragraph shall be applied against the accounting or
fundraising expenditure exemption under paragraph (1).
``(g) Civil Penalties.--
``(1) Low amount of excess expenditures.--Any eligible
House of Representatives candidate who makes expenditures
that exceed a limitation under subsection (a) or subsection
(b) by 2.5 percent or less shall pay to the Commission an
amount equal to the amount of the excess expenditures.
``(2) Medium amount of excess expenditures.--Any eligible
House of Representatives candidate who makes expenditures
that exceed a limitation under subsection (a) or subsection
(b) by more than 2.5 percent and less than 5 percent shall
pay to the Commission an amount equal to three times the
amount of the excess expenditures.
``(3) Large amount of excess expenditures.--Any eligible
House of Representatives candidate who makes expenditures
that exceed a limitation under subsection (a) or subsection
(b) by 5 percent or more shall pay to the Commission an
amount equal to three times the amount of the excess
expenditures plus a civil penalty in an amount determined by
the Commission.
``(h) Indexing.--The dollar amounts specified in
subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall be adjusted at the
beginning of each calendar year based on the increase in the
price index determined under section 315(c), except that, for
the purposes of such adjustment, the base period shall be
calendar year 1992.
``(i) The limitations of this section do not apply in the
case of any recall action held pursuant to State law.

``SEC. 602. CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS.

``(a) Personal Contributions.--An eligible House of
Representatives candidate may not, with respect to an
election cycle, make contributions or loans to his or her own
campaign totaling more than $50,000 from the personal funds
of the candidate. The amount that the candidate may accept
from persons referred to in section 315(i)(2) shall be
reduced by the amount of contributions made under the
preceding sentence. Contributions from the personal funds of
a candidate may not be matched under section 604.
``(b) Limitation Exception.--The limitation imposed by
subsection (a) does not apply in the case of an eligible
House of Representatives candidate if any other candidate for
that office--
``(1) is not an eligible House of Representatives general
election candidate; and
``(2) makes contributions or loans to his or her own
campaign totaling more than $50,000 from his or her own
personal funds.

``SEC. 603. DECLARATION OF PARTICIPATION; CONTINUING
ELIGIBILITY.

``The Commission shall determine whether a candidate is
eligible under this title and, by reason of such eligibility
may receive benefits under this title. Such determination
shall--
``(1) in the case of an initial determination, be based on
a declaration of participation submitted by the candidate;
and
``(2) in the case of a determination of continuing
eligibility, be based on relevant additional information
submitted in such form and manner as the Commission may
require.

``SEC. 604. VOTER COMMUNICATION VOUCHERS.

``(a) In General.--An eligible House of Representatives
candidate shall be entitled to receive, with respect to the
general election, an amount of voter communication vouchers
equal to the amount of contributions from individuals
received by the candidate, but not more than $200,000, with
not more than $200 to be taken into account per individual.
``(b) Specific Requirements.--A candidate for the office of
Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to,
the Congress may receive voter communication vouchers under
subsection (a) only if the candidate--
``(1) in an election cycle, has received 10 percent of the
limit specified in section 601(a) in contributions from
individuals, with not more than $200 to be taken into account
per individual;
``(2) qualifies for the general election ballot;
``(3) has an opponent on the general election ballot; and
``(4) files a declaration of participation in which the
candidate agrees to--
``(A) comply with the limitations under sections 601 and
315(i);
``(B) cooperate in the case of any audit by the Commission
by furnishing such campaign records and other information as
the Commission may require; and
``(C) comply with any repayment requirement under section
606.
``(c) Written Instrument Requirement.--No contribution in
any form other than a gift of money made by a written
instrument or a certification by the committee making the
request that identifies the individual making the
contribution by full name and address may be used as a basis
for any matching payment under this section.
``(d) Certification and Payment.--
``(1) Certification.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2),
(3), and (4) not later than 5 days after receiving a request
for payment, the Commission shall certify for payment the
amount requested under this section. The request by an
eligible candidate to receive voter communications vouchers
under this section shall contain--
``(A) such information and be made in accordance with such
procedures as the Commission may provide by regulation; and
``(B) a verification signed by the candidate and the
treasurer of the principal campaign committee of such
candidate stating that the information furnished in support
of the request, to the best of their knowledge, is correct
and fully satisfies the requirements of this title.
``(2) Payments.--The initial payment of voter communication
vouchers under subsection (a) to an eligible candidate shall
be an amount equal to at least 10 percent of the limit
specified in section 601(a). All payments shall be--
``(A) made not later than 48 hours after certification
under paragraph (1); and
``(B) subject to proportional reduction in the case of
insufficient funds.
``(3) Partial certification.--If the Commission determines
that any portion of a request does not meet the requirements
for certification, the Commission shall withhold the
certification for that portion only and inform the candidate
as to how the candidate may correct the request.
``(4) Certification withheld.--The Commission may withhold
certification if it determines that a candidate who is
otherwise eligible has engaged in a pattern of activity
indicating that the promises in the candidate's statement of
participation cannot be relied upon.
``(e) Closely Contested Primary.--If, as determined by the
Commission, an eligible House of Representatives candidate in
a contested primary election wins that primary election by a
margin of 20 percentage points or less, the candidate shall
be eligible to receive matching vouchers totaling not more
than $66,600, in addition to any other amount received under
this section. The amount available under the preceding
sentence is subject to the matching requirements of this
section.
``(f) Independent Expenditure Provision.--If, with respect
to a general election involving an eligible House of
Representatives candidate, independent expenditures totaling
$10,000 are made against the eligible House of
Representatives candidate or in favor of another candidate,
the eligible House of Representatives candidate shall be
entitled, in addition to any amount received under subsection
(a), to voter communication vouchers equal to the amount of
such independent expenditures, and expenditures may be made
from such vouchers without regard to the limitations in
section 601.
``(g) Prohibition of Conversion to Personal Use.--An
eligible candidate who receives voter communication vouchers
under this section may not convert any amount to personal use
or make any payments, directly or indirectly, to such
candidate or to any members of the immediate family of the
candidate.
``(h) Indexing.--The dollar amount specified in subsections
(a) and (e) (other than the amount taken into account per
individual) shall be adjusted at the beginning of the
calendar year based on the increase in the price index
determined under section 315(c), except that, for the
purposes of such adjustment, the base period shall be
calendar year 1992.
``(i) Use of Voter Communication Vouchers.--Voter
communication vouchers shall be used by an eligible House of
Representatives candidate--
``(1) to purchase broadcast time during the general
election period in the same manner as other broadcast time
may be purchased by the candidate;
``(2) to purchase print advertisements during the general
election period;
``(3) to purchase voter contact campaign materials
(brochures, bumper stickers, handbills, pins, posters, and
yard signs) used during the general election period; or
``(4) to pay for postage expenses incurred during the
general election period.
``(j) Unexpended Vouchers.--Any amount of voter
communication vouchers received by an eligible House
candidate under this title and not expended on or before the
date of the general election shall be repaid within 60 days
of the election, except that a reasonable amount may be
retained for a period not exceeding 120 days after the date
of the general election for the liquidation of obligations to
pay expenditures for the general election incurred during the
general election period. At the end of the 120-day period,
any unexpended vouchers received under this title shall be
promptly repaid.

``SEC. 605. CLOSED CAPTIONING REQUIREMENT FOR TELEVISION
COMMERCIALS OF ELIGIBLE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES CANDIDATES.

``No eligible House of Representatives candidate may
receive amounts under section 604 unless such candidate has
certified to the Federal Election Commission that any
television commercial prepared or distributed by the
candidate will be prepared in a manner that contains, is
accompanied by, or otherwise readily permits closed
captioning of the oral content of the commercial to be
broadcast by way of line 21 of the vertical blanking
interval, or by way of comparable successor technologies.

``SEC. 606. EXAMINATION AND AUDITS; REPAYMENTS.

``(a) General Election.--After each general election, the
Commission shall conduct an examination and audit of the
campaign accounts of 5 percent of the eligible House of
Representatives candidates, as designated by the Commission
through the use of an appropriate statistical method of
random selection, to determine whether such candidates have
complied with the conditions of eligibility and other
requirements of this title. No other factors shall be
considered in carrying out such an examination and audit. The
Commission shall conduct an examination and audit of the
accounts of all candidates from a congressional district
where any eligible candidate is selected for examination and
audit.
``(b) Special Election.--After each special election, the
Commission shall conduct an examination and audit of the
campaign accounts of all eligible candidates in the election
to determine whether the candidates have complied with the
conditions of eligibility and other requirements of this
title.
``(c) Affirmative Vote.--The Commission may conduct an
examination and audit of the campaign accounts of any
eligible House of Representatives candidate in a general
election if the Commission, by an affirmative vote of 4
members, determines that there exists reason to believe
whether such candidate may have violated any provision of
this title.
``(d) Payments.--If the Commission determines that any
amount of a payment to a candidate under this title was in
excess of the aggregate payments to which such candidate was
entitled, the Commission shall so notify the candidate, and
the candidate shall pay an amount equal to the excess.

``SEC. 607. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

``(a) Judicial Review.--Any agency action by the Commission
made under the provisions of this title shall be subject to
review by the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit upon petition filed in such court within
30 days after the agency action by the Commission for which
review is sought. It shall be the duty of the Court of
Appeals, ahead of all matters not filed under this title, to
advance on the docket and expeditiously take action on all
petitions filed pursuant to this title.
``(b) Application of Title 5.--The provisions of chapter 7
of title 5, United States Code, shall apply to judicial
review of any agency action by the Commission.
``(c) Agency Action.--For purposes of this section, the
term `agency action' has the meaning given such term by
section 551(13) of title 5, United States Code.

``SEC. 608. PARTICIPATION BY COMMISSION IN JUDICIAL
PROCEEDINGS.

``(a) Appearances.--The Commission is authorized to appear
in and defend against any action instituted under this
section and under section 607 either by attorneys employed in
its office or by counsel whom it may appoint without regard
to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing
appointments in the competitive service, and whose
compensation it may fix without regard to the provisions of
chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title.
``(b) Institution of Actions.--The Commission is
authorized, through attorneys and counsel described in
subsection (a), to institute actions in the district courts
of the United States to seek recovery of any amounts
determined under this title to be payable to the Secretary.
``(c) Injunctive Relief.--The Commission is authorized,
through attorneys and counsel described in subsection (a), to
petition the courts of the United States for such injunctive
relief as is appropriate in order to implement any provision
of this title.
``(d) Appeals.--The Commission is authorized on behalf of
the United States to appeal from, and to petition the Supreme
Court for certiorari to review, judgments or decrees entered
with respect to actions in which it appears pursuant to the
authority provided in this section.

``SEC. 609. REPORTS TO CONGRESS; CERTIFICATIONS; REGULATIONS.

``(a) Reports.--The Commission shall, as soon as
practicable after each election, submit a full report to the
House of Representatives setting forth--
``(1) the expenditures (shown in such detail as the
Commission determines appropriate) made by each eligible
candidate and the authorized committees of such candidate;
``(2) the aggregate amount of voter communication vouchers
certified by the Commission under section 604 for each
eligible candidate; and
``(3) the amount of repayments, if any, required under
section 606, and the reasons for each repayment required.

Each report submitted pursuant to this section shall be
printed as a House document.
``(b) Determinations by Commission.--All determinations
(including certifications under section 604) made by the
Commission under this title shall be final and conclusive,
except to the extent that they are subject to examination and
audit by the Commission under section 606 or judicial review
under section 607.
``(c) Rules and Regulations.--The Commission is authorized
to prescribe such rules and regulations, in accordance with
the provisions of subsection (d), to conduct such audits,
examinations and investigations, and to require the keeping
and submission of such books, records, and information, as it
deems necessary to carry out the functions and duties imposed
on it by this title.
``(d) Report of Proposed Regulations.--The Commission shall
submit to the House of Representatives a report containing a
detailed explanation and justification of each rule,
regulation, and form of the Commission under this title. No
such rule, regulation, or form may take effect until a period
of 30 legislative days has elapsed after the report is
received. As used in this subsection--
``(1) the term `legislative day' means any calendar day on
which the House of Representatives is in session; and
``(2) the terms `rule' and `regulation' mean a provision or
series of interrelated provisions stating a single, separable
rule of law.''.
(b) Report on Using Voter Communication Vouchers for
Primary Elections.--The Commission shall submit to the House
of Representatives, not later than January 1, 1997, a report
containing an evaluation for expanding the use of voter
communication vouchers in primary elections for eligible
candidates to the House of Representatives for the election
year 2000 and thereafter. The report shall include a detailed
cost estimate for such expansion and options for financing
the use of Voter Communication Vouchers in primary elections.

SEC. 122. REGISTRATION AS ELIGIBLE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
CANDIDATE.

(a) In General.--Section 302(e) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 432(e)) is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
``(6)(A) In the case of a candidate for the office of
Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to,
the Congress, who desires to be an eligible House of
Representatives candidate, a declaration of participation of
the candidate to abide by the limits specified in sections
601 and 315(i) and provide the information required under
section 604(b)(4) shall be included in the designation
required to be filed under paragraph (1).
``(B)(i) In the case of a candidate referred to in
subparagraph (A), if the statement of candidacy does not
include a declaration referred to in that paragraph, the
candidate may amend the statement to include such
declaration, if such amendment is filed under subsection (g)
not later than 7 days after the earlier of--
``(I) the date the candidate qualifies for the general
election ballot under State law; or
``(II) if, under State law, a primary or runoff election to
qualify for the general election ballot occurs after
September 1, the date the candidate wins the primary or
runoff election.
``(ii) A declaration of participation that is included in a
statement of candidacy or has been added by amendment under
subparagraph (B) may not thereafter be revoked.''.

SEC. 123. DEFINITIONS.

Section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 431) is amended by striking paragraph (19) and
inserting the following new paragraphs:
``(19) The term `general election' means any election which
will directly result in the election of a person to a Federal
office, but does not include an open primary election.
``(20) The term `general election period' means, with
respect to any candidate, the period beginning on the day
after the date of the primary or runoff election for the
specific office the candidate is seeking, whichever is later,
and ending on the earlier of--
``(A) the date of such general election; or
``(B) the date on which the candidate withdraws from the
campaign or otherwise ceases actively to seek election.
``(21) The term `immediate family' means--
``(A) a candidate's spouse;
``(B) a child, stepchild, parent, grandparent, brother,
step-brother, sister or step-sister of the candidate or the
candidate's spouse; and
``(C) the spouse of any person described in subparagraph
(B).
``(22) The term `primary election' means an election which
may result in the selection of a candidate for the ballot in
a general election for a Federal office.
``(23) The term `primary election period' means, with
respect to any candidate, the period beginning on the day
following the date of the last election for the specific
office the candidate is seeking and ending on the earlier
of--
``(A) the date of the first primary election for that
office following the last general election for that office;
or
``(B) the date on which the candidate withdraws from the
election or otherwise ceases actively to seek election.
``(24) The term `runoff election' means an election held
after a primary election which is prescribed by applicable
State law as the means for deciding which candidate will be
on the ballot in the general election for a Federal office.
``(25) The term `runoff election period' means, with
respect to any candidate, the period beginning on the day
following the date of the last primary election for the
specific office such candidate is seeking and ending on the
date of the runoff election for such office.
``(26) The term `voting age population' means the resident
population, 18 years of age or older, as certified pursuant
to section 315(e).
``(27) The term `eligible House of Representatives
candidate' means a candidate for election to the office of
Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to,
the Congress, who, as determined by the Commission under
section 603, is eligible to receive matching vouchers and
other benefits under title VI by reason of filing a
declaration of participation under section 302(e) and
complying with the continuing eligibility requirements under
section 603.
``(28) The term `election cycle' means--
``(A) in the case of a candidate or the authorized
committees of a candidate, the term beginning on the day
after the date of the most recent general election for the
specific office or seat which such candidate seeks and ending
on the date of the next general election for such office or
seat; or
``(B) for all other persons, the term beginning on the
first day following the date of the last general election and
ending on the date of the next general election.''.
TITLE II--LIMITATIONS ON POLITICAL COMMITTEE AND LARGE DONOR
CONTRIBUTIONS THAT MAY BE ACCEPTED BY HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
CANDIDATES

SEC. 201. LIMITATIONS ON POLITICAL COMMITTEE AND LARGE DONOR
CONTRIBUTIONS THAT MAY BE ACCEPTED BY HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES CANDIDATES.

Section 315 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441a) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsections:
``(i)(1) A candidate for the office of Representative in,
or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress may
not, with respect to an election cycle, accept contributions
from political committees aggregating in excess of $200,000.
``(2) A candidate for the office of Representative in, or
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress may not,
with respect to an election cycle, accept contributions
aggregating in excess of $200,000 from persons other than
political committees whose contributions total more than
$200.
``(3) In addition to the contributions under paragraphs (1)
and (2), if an eligible House of Representatives candidate in
a contested primary election wins that primary election by a
margin of 20 percentage points or less, the candidate may
accept contributions of--
``(A) not more than $66,600 from political committees; and
``(B) not more than $66,600 from persons referred to in
paragraph (2).
``(4) In addition to the contributions under paragraphs (1)
and (2), a House of Representatives candidate who is a
candidate in a runoff election may accept contributions of
(A) not more than $100,000 from political committees; and (B)
not more than $100,000 from persons referred to in paragraph
(2).
``(j) Nonparticipating Opponent Provisions.--The
limitations imposed by section 315(i) do not apply in the
case of an eligible House of Representatives candidate if any
other candidate seeking nomination or election to that
office--
``(1) is not an eligible House of Representatives general
election candidate; and
``(2) makes contributions or loans to his or her own
campaign totaling more than $50,000 from his or her own
personal funds.
``(k) Civil Penalties.--
``(1) Low amount of excess contributions.--Any eligible
House of Representatives candidate who accepts contributions
that exceed the limitations under this section by 2.5 percent
or less shall refund the excess contributions to the persons
who made the contributions.
``(2) Medium amount of excess contributions.--Any eligible
House of Representatives candidate who accepts contributions
that exceed the limitations under this section by more than
2.5 percent and less than 5 percent shall pay to the
Commission an amount equal to three times the amount of the
excess contributions.
``(3) Large amount of excess contributions.--Any eligible
House of Representatives candidate who accepts contributions
that exceed the limitations under this section by 5 percent
or more shall pay to the Commission an amount equal to three
times the amount of the excess contributions plus a civil
penalty in an amount determined by the Commission.
``(l) Exemption for Certain Costs.--Any amount--
``(1) accepted by a House of Representatives candidate; and
``(2) used for costs incurred under section 601(e) and (f)
shall not be considered in the computation of amounts subject
to limitation.
``(m) Indexing.--The dollar amounts specified in section
315(i) shall be adjusted at the beginning of the calendar
year based on the increase in the price index determined
under section 315(c), except that, for the purposes of such
adjustment, the base period shall be calendar year 1992.
``(n) Transfer Provision.--The limitations imposed by
section 315(i) apply without regard to amounts transferred
from previous election cycles or other authorized committees
of the same candidate. Candidates shall not be required to
seek the redesignation of contributions in order to transfer
such contributions to a later election cycle.''.
TITLE III--INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES

SEC. 301. CLARIFICATION OF DEFINITIONS RELATING TO
INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES.

(a) Independent Expenditure Definition Amendment.--Section
301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C.
431) is amended by striking paragraphs (17) and (18) and
inserting the following:
``(17)(A) The term `independent expenditure' means an
expenditure for an advertisement or other communication
that--
``(i) contains express advocacy; and
``(ii) is made without the participation or cooperation of,
or consultation with, a candidate or a candidate's
representative.
``(B) The following shall not be considered an independent
expenditure:
``(i) An expenditure made by an authorized committee of a
candidate for Federal office or a political committee of a
political party.
``(ii) An expenditure made by a person who, during the
election cycle, has made a contribution to a candidate, where
the expenditure is in support of that candidate or in
opposition to another candidate for the same office.
``(iii) An expenditure made by a person, or a political
committee established, maintained or controlled by such
person, who is required to register, under section 308 of the
Federal Regulation of Lobbying Act (2 U.S.C. 267) or the
Foreign Agents Registration Act (22 U.S.C. 611) or any
successor Federal law requiring a person who is a lobbyist or
foreign agent to register.
``(iv) An expenditure made by a person who, during the
election cycle, has communicated with or received information
from a candidate or a representative of that candidate
regarding activities that have the purpose of influencing
that candidate's election to Federal office, where the
expenditure is in support of that candidate or in opposition
to another candidate for that office.
``(v) An expenditure if, in the same election cycle, the
person making the expenditure is or has been--
``(I) authorized to raise or expend funds on behalf of the
candidate or the candidate's authorized committees; or
``(II) serving as a member, employee, or agent of the
candidate's authorized committees in an executive or
policymaking position.
``(18) The term `express advocacy' means, when a
communication is taken as a whole and with limited reference
to external events, an expression of support for or
opposition to a specific candidate, to a specific group of
candidates, or to candidates of a particular political party,
or a suggestion to take action with respect to an election,
such as to vote for or against, make contributions to, or
participate in campaign activity.''.
(b) Contribution Definition Amendment.--Section 301(8)(A)
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C.
431(8)(A)) is amended--
(1) in clause (i), by striking ``or'' after the semicolon
at the end;
(2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and
inserting ``; or''; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
``(iii) any payment or other transaction referred to in
paragraph (17)(A)(i) that does not qualify as an independent
expenditure under paragraph (17)(A)(ii).''.

SEC. 302. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN INDEPENDENT
EXPENDITURES.

Section 304(c) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(2 U.S.C. 434(c)) is amended--
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking out the undesignated
matter after subparagraph (C);
(2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (8); and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (2), as amended by
paragraph (1), the following new paragraphs:
``(3)(A) Any person (including a political committee)
making an independent expenditure (including those described
in subsection (b)(6)(B)(iii) of this section) aggregating
$1,000 or more made after the 20th day, but more than 24
hours, before any election shall file a report within 24
hours after such independent expenditure is made.
``(B) Any person (including a political committee) making
an independent expenditure aggregating $5,000 or more made at
any time up to and including the 20th day before any election
shall file a report within 48 hours after such independent
expenditure is made. An additional report shall be filed each
time independent expenditures aggregating $5,000 are made
with respect to the same election as the initial report filed
under this section.
``(C) Such report shall be filed with the Clerk of the
House of Representatives, the Secretary of the Senate, or the
Commission, whichever is applicable, and the Secretary of
State of the State involved and shall contain the information
required by subsection (b)(6)(B)(iii) of this section,
including whether the independent expenditure is in support
of, or in opposition to, the candidate involved. The Clerk of
the House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate
shall as soon as possible (but not later than 4 working hours
of the Commission) after receipt of a report transmit it to
the Commission. Not later than 48 hours after the Commission
receives a report, the Commission shall transmit a copy of
the report to each candidate seeking nomination or election
to that office.
``(D) For purposes of this section, the term `made'
includes any payment and any action taken to incur an
obligation for payment.
``(4)(A) If any person (including a political committee)
intends to make independent expenditures totaling $5,000
during the 20 days before an election, such person shall file
a report no later than the 20th day before the election.
``(B) Such report shall be filed with the Clerk of the
House of Representatives, the Secretary of the Senate, or the
Commission, whichever is applicable, and the Secretary of
State of the State involved, and shall identify each
candidate whom the expenditure is actually intended to
support or to oppose. The Clerk of the House of
Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate shall as soon
as possible (but not later than 4 working hours of the
Commission) after receipt of a report transmit it to the
Commission. Not later than 48 hours after the Commission
receives a report under this paragraph, the Commission shall
transmit a copy of the statement to each candidate
identified.
``(5) The Commission may make its own determination that a
person has made, or has incurred obligations to make,
independent expenditures with respect to any Federal election
which in the aggregate exceed the applicable amounts under
paragraph (3) or (4). The Commission shall notify each
candidate in such election of such determination within 24
hours of making it.
``(6) At the same time as an eligible candidate who has
qualified under section 604(b) is notified under paragraph
(3), (4), or (5) with respect to expenditures during a
general election period, the Commission shall certify
eligibility to receive benefits under section 604(b).
``(7) The Clerk of the House of Representatives and the
Secretary of the Senate shall make any report received under
this subsection available for public inspection and copying
in the same manner as the Commission under section 311(a)(4),
and shall preserve such statements in the same manner as the
Commission under section 311(a)(5).''.

SEC. 303. BROADCAST AND CABLE INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURE
COMMUNICATIONS AGAINST ELIGIBLE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES CANDIDATES.

Section 315 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
315) is amended--
(1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections
(e) and (f), respectively; and
(2) by inserting immediately before subsection (e) as
redesignated the following new subsection:
``(d) If any person makes an independent expenditure
through a communication on a broadcasting station or a cable
system (as defined in section 602 of this Act) that expressly
advocates the defeat of an eligible House of Representatives
candidate, or the election of the opponent of an eligible
House of Representatives candidate (regardless of whether
such opponent is an eligible candidate), the licensee or
cable operator, as applicable, shall, not later than one week
after the communication (or not later than 24 hours after the
communication, if the communication occurs not more than one
week before the election) transmit to such candidate--
``(1) a statement of the date and time of the
communication;
``(2) a script or tape recording of the communication, or
an accurate summary of the communication if a script or tape
recording is not available; and
``(3) an offer of an equal opportunity for such candidate
to use the broadcasting station or cable system to respond to
the communication at a charge determined in accordance with
subsection (b).''.
TITLE IV--CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENDITURES BY POLITICAL PARTY COMMITTEES

SEC. 401. DEFINITIONS.

(a) Contribution and Expenditure Exceptions.--(1) Clause
(xii) of section 301(8)(B) of Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(8)(B)(xii)) is amended--
(A) by inserting ``in connection with volunteer
activities'' after ``such committee''; and
(B) by striking ``and'' at the end of subclause (2), by
inserting ``and'' at the end of subclause (3), and by adding
at the end the following new subclause:
``(4) such activities are conducted solely by, and any
materials are prepared for distribution, and are distributed
solely by, volunteers;''.
(2) Clause (ix) of section 301(9)(B) of Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(9)(B)(ix)) is amended--
(A) by inserting ``in connection with volunteer
activities'' after ``such committee'';
(B) by striking ``and'' at the end of subclause (2); and
(C) by adding at the end the following new subclause:
``(4) such activities are conducted solely by, and any
materials are prepared for distribution and are distributed
solely by, volunteers; and''.
(b) Generic Activities; State Party Grassroots Fund.--
Section 301 of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 431), as amended by section 123, is further amended by
adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
``(29) The term `generic campaign activity' means any
campaign activity conducted by a political party to promote a
political party rather than any Federal or non-Federal
candidate and which does not identify any Federal or non-
Federal candidate.
``(30) The term `State Party Grassroots Fund' means a
separate segregated fund established and maintained by a
State committee of a political party solely for purposes of
making expenditures and other disbursements described in
section 323(d).''.

SEC. 402. CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL PARTY COMMITTEES.

(a) Individual Contributions to Political Party
Committees.--Paragraph (1) of section 315(a) of Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(1)) is
amended by striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph (B), by
redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D), and by
inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new
subparagraph:
``(C) to--
``(i) a State Party Grassroots Fund established and
maintained by a State committee of a political party in any
calendar year which, in the aggregate, exceed $20,000;
``(ii) any other political committee established and
maintained by a State committee of a political party in any
calendar year which, in the aggregate, exceed $5,000,

except that the aggregate contributions described in this
subparagraph which may be made by a person to the State Party
Grassroots Fund and all committees of a State Committee of a
political party in any State in any calendar year shall not
exceed $20,000; or''.
(b) Multicandidate Committee Contributions to State
Party.--Paragraph (2) of section 315(a) of Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(2)) is amended by
striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph (B), by
redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D), and by
inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new
subparagraph:
``(C) to--
``(i) a State Party Grassroots Fund established and
maintained by a State committee of a political party in any
calendar year which, in the aggregate, exceed $15,000;
``(ii) to any other political committee established and
maintained by a State committee of a political party which,
in the aggregate, exceed $5,000,

except that the aggregate contributions described in this
subparagraph which may be made by a multicandidate political
committee to the State Party Grassroots Fund and all
committees of a State Committee of a political party in any
State in any calendar year shall not exceed $15,000; or''.
(c) Overall Limit.--Paragraph (3) of section 315(a) of
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(3))
is amended to read as follows:
``(3)(A) No individual shall make contributions during any
election cycle (as defined in section 301(29)(B)) which, in
the aggregate, exceed $60,000.
``(B) No individual shall make contributions during any
calendar year--
``(i) to all candidates and their authorized political
committees which, in the aggregate, exceed $25,000; or
``(ii) to all political committees established and
maintained by State committees of a political party which, in
the aggregate, exceed $20,000.
``(C) For purposes of subparagraph (B)(i), any contribution
made to a candidate or the candidate's authorized political
committees in a year other than the calendar year in which
the election is held with respect to which such contribution
is made shall be treated as made during the calendar year in
which the election is held.''.

SEC. 403. PROVISIONS RELATING TO NATIONAL, STATE, AND LOCAL
PARTY COMMITTEES.

(a) Soft Money of Committees of Political Parties.--Title
III of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431 et
seq.) is amended by adding after section 322 the following
new section:

``SEC. 323. POLITICAL PARTY COMMITTEES.

``(a) Limitations on National Committee.--(1) A national
committee of a political party and the congressional campaign
committees of a political party may not solicit or accept
contributions or transfers not subject to the limitations,
prohibitions, and reporting requirements of this Act.
``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to contributions--
``(A) that--
``(i) are to be transferred to a State committee of a
political party and are used solely for activities described
in clauses (xi) through (xvii) of paragraph (9)(B) of section
301;
``(ii) are described in section 301(8)(B)(viii); and
``(B) with respect to which contributors have been notified
that the funds will be used solely for the purposes described
in subparagraph (A).
``(b) Activities Subject to This Act.--Any amount
solicited, received, expended, or disbursed directly or
indirectly by a national, State, district, or local committee
of a political party with respect to any of the following
activities shall be subject to the limitations, prohibitions,
and reporting requirements of this Act:
``(A) Any get-out-the-vote activity conducted during a
calendar year in which an election for the office of
President is held.
``(B) Any other get-out-the-vote activity unless subsection
(c)(2) applies to the activity.
``(C) Any generic campaign activity.
``(D) Any activity that identifies or promotes a Federal
candidate, regardless of whether--
``(i) a State or local candidate is also identified or
promoted; or
``(ii) any portion of the funds disbursed constitutes a
contribution or expenditure under this Act.
``(E) Voter registration.
``(F) Development and maintenance of voter files during an
even-numbered calendar year.
``(G) Any other activity that--
``(i) significantly affects a Federal election, or
``(ii) is not otherwise described in section
301(8)(B)(xvii).
Any amount spent to raise funds that are used, in whole or in
part, in connection with activities described in the
preceding paragraphs shall be subject to the limitations,
prohibitions, and reporting requirements of this Act.
``(c) Get-Out-The-Vote Activities By State, District, and
Local Committees of Political Parties.--(1) Except as
provided in paragraph (2), any get-out-the-vote activity for
a State or local candidate, or for a ballot measure, which is
conducted by a State, district, or local committee of a
political party shall be subject to the limitations,
prohibitions, and reporting requirements of this Act.
``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any activity which
the State committee of a political party certifies to the
Commission is an activity which--
``(A) is conducted during a calendar year other than a
calendar year in which an election for the office of
President is held,
``(B) is exclusively on behalf of (and specifically
identifies only) one or more State or local candidates or
ballot measures, and
``(C) does not include any effort or means used to identify
or turn out those identified to be supporters of any Federal
candidate (including any activity that is undertaken in
coordination with, or on behalf of, a candidate for Federal
office).
``(d) State Party Grassroots Funds.--(1) A State committee
of a political party may make disbursements and expenditures
from its State Party Grassroots Fund only for--
``(A) any generic campaign activity;
``(B) payments described in clauses (v), (x), and (xii) of
paragraph (8)(B) and clauses (iv), (viii), and (ix) of
paragraph (9)(B) of section 301;
``(C) subject to the limitations of section 315(d),
payments described in clause (xii) of paragraph (8)(B), and
clause (ix) of paragraph (9)(B), of section 301 on behalf of
candidates other than for President and Vice President;
``(D) voter registration; and
``(E) development and maintenance of voter files during an
even-numbered calendar year.
``(2) Notwithstanding section 315(a)(4), no funds may be
transferred by a State committee of a political party from
its State Party Grassroots Fund to any other State Party
Grassroots Fund or to any other political committee, except a
transfer may be made to a district or local committee of the
same political party in the same State if such district or
local committee--
``(A) has established a separate segregated fund for the
purposes described in paragraph (1); and
``(B) uses the transferred funds solely for those purposes.
``(e) Amounts Received by Grassroots Fund From State and
Local Candidate Committees.--(1) Any amount received by a
State Party Grassroots Fund from a State or local candidate
committee for expenditures described in subsection (b) that
are for the benefit of that candidate shall be treated as
meeting the requirements of subsection (b) and section 304(e)
if--
``(A) such amount is derived from funds which meet the
requirements of this Act with respect to any limitation or
prohibition as to source or dollar amount specified in
section 315(a) (1)(A) and (2)(A); and
``(B) the State or local candidate committee--
``(i) maintains, in the account from which payment is made,
records of the sources and amounts of funds for purposes of
determining whether such requirements are met; and
``(ii) certifies that such requirements were met.
``(2) For purposes of paragraph (1)(A), in determining
whether the funds transferred meet the requirements of this
Act described in such paragraph--
``(A) a State or local candidate committee's cash on hand
shall be treated as consisting of the funds most recently
received by the committee, and
``(B) the committee must be able to demonstrate that its
cash on hand contains sufficient funds meeting such
requirements as are necessary to cover the transferred funds.
``(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)--
``(A) any State Party Grassroots Fund receiving any
transfer described in paragraph (1) from a State or local
candidate committee shall be required to meet the reporting
requirements of this Act, and shall submit to the Commission
all certifications received, with respect to receipt of the
transfer from such candidate committee; and
``(B) in the case of a subordinate committee of a State
committee which maintains segregated accounts which are not
commingled with other accounts of the State committee and
which subordinate committee is subject to reporting and
contribution limitation requirements of State law, the
certification required by this paragraph may be made by such
subordinate committee.
``(4) For purposes of this subsection, a State or local
candidate committee is a committee established, financed,
maintained, or controlled by a candidate for other than
Federal office.''.
(b) Contributions and Expenditures.--(1) Section 301(8)(B)
of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(8)(B))
is amended--
(A) in clause (viii), by inserting after ``Federal office''
the following: ``or any amounts received by any committee of
any National or State political party to support the
operation of a television and radio broadcast facility'';
(B) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (xiii);
(C) by striking clause (xiv); and
(D) by inserting after clause (xiii) the following new
clauses:
``(xiv) any amount contributed to a candidate for other
than Federal office;
``(xv) any amount received or expended to pay the costs of
a State or local political convention;
``(xvi) any payment for campaign activities that are
exclusively on behalf of (and specifically identify only)
State or local candidates and do not identify any Federal
candidate, and that are not activities described in section
323(b) (without regard to paragraph (6)(B)) or section
323(c)(1);
``(xvii) any payment for administrative expenses of a State
or local committee of a political party, including expenses
for--
``(I) overhead, including party meetings;
``(II) staff (other than individuals devoting a significant
amount of their time to elections for Federal office and
individuals engaged in conducting get-out-the-vote activities
for a Federal election); and
``(III) conducting party elections or caucuses;
``(xviii) any payment for research pertaining solely to
State and local candidates and issues;
``(xix) any payment for development and maintenance of
voter files other than during the 1-year period ending on the
date during an even-numbered calendar year on which regularly
scheduled general elections for Federal office occur; and
``(xx) any payment for any other activity which is solely
for the purpose of influencing, and which solely affects, an
election for non-Federal office and which is not an activity
described in section 323(b) (without regard to paragraph
(6)(B)) or section 323(c)(1).''.
(2) Section 301(9)(B) of Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(9)(B)), as amended by section 401, is
further amended by striking ``and'' at the end of clause
(ix), by striking the period at the end of clause (x) and
inserting a semicolon, and by adding at the end the following
new clauses:
``(xi) any amounts expended by any committee of any
National or State political party to support the operation of
a television and radio broadcast facility;
``(xii) any amount contributed to a candidate for other
than Federal office;
``(xiii) any amount received or expended to pay the costs
of a State or local political convention;
``(xiv) any payment for campaign activities that are
exclusively on behalf of (and specifically identify only)
State or local candidates and do not identify any Federal
candidate, and that are not activities described in section
323(b) (without regard to paragraph (6)(B)) or section
323(c)(1);
``(xv) any payment for administrative expenses of a State
or local committee of a political party, including expenses
for--
``(I) overhead, including party meetings;
``(II) staff (other than individuals devoting a significant
amount of their time to elections for Federal office and
individuals engaged in conducting get-out-the-vote activities
for a Federal election); and
``(III) conducting party elections or caucuses;
``(xvi) any payment for research pertaining solely to State
and local candidates and issues;
``(xvii) any payment for development and maintenance of
voter files other than during the 1-year period ending on the
date during an even-numbered calendar year on which regularly
scheduled general elections for Federal office occur; and
``(xviii) any payment for any other activity which is
solely for the purpose of influencing, and which solely
affects, an election for non-Federal office and which is not
an activity described in section 323(b) (without regard to
paragraph (6)(B)) or section 323(c)(1).''.
(c) Limitation Applied at National Level.--Paragraph (3) of
section 315(d) of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441a(d)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the
following new flush sentence:
``Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the applicable
congressional campaign committee of a political party shall
make the expenditures described in this paragraph which are
authorized to be made by a national or State committee with
respect to a candidate in any State unless it allocates all
or a portion of such expenditures to either or both of such
committees.''.
(d) Limitations Apply for Entire Election Cycle.--Section
315(d)(1) of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C.
441a(d)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ``Each limitation under the following paragraphs
shall apply to the entire election cycle for an office.''.

SEC. 404. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

(a) Reporting Requirements.--Section 304 of Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 434) is amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:
``(d) Political Committees.--(1) The national committee of
a political party and any congressional campaign committee of
a political party, and any subordinate committee of either,
shall report all receipts and disbursements during the
reporting period, whether or not in connection with an
election for Federal office.
``(2) A political committee (not described in paragraph
(1)) to which section 323 applies shall report all receipts
and disbursements including separate schedules for receipts
and disbursements for State Grassroots Funds described in
section 301(30).
``(3) Any political committee to which section 323 applies
shall include in its report under paragraph (1) or (2) the
amount of any transfer described in section 323(d)(2) and
shall itemize such amounts to the extent required by section
304(b)(3)(A).
``(4) Any political committee to which paragraph (1) or (2)
does not apply shall report any receipts or disbursements
which are used in connection with a Federal election.
``(5) If a political committee has receipts or
disbursements to which this subsection applies from any
person aggregating in excess of $200 for any calendar year,
the political committee shall separately itemize its
reporting for such person in the same manner as subsection
(b) (3)(A), (5), or (6).
``(6) Reports required to be filed by this subsection shall
be filed for the same time periods required for political
committees under subsection (a).''.
(b) Report of Exempt Contributions.--Section 301(8) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(8)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
``(C) The exclusion provided in clause (viii) of
subparagraph (B) shall not apply for purposes of any
requirement to report contributions under this Act, and all
such contributions aggregating in excess of $200 shall be
reported.''.
(c) Reports by State Committees.--Section 304 of Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 434), as amended by
subsection (a), is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
``(e) Filing of State Reports.--In lieu of any report
required to be filed by this Act, the Commission may allow a
State committee of a political party to file with the
Commission a report required to be filed under State law if
the Commission determines such reports contain substantially
the same information.''.
(d) Other Reporting Requirements.--
(1) Authorized committees.--Paragraph (4) of section 304(b)
of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 434(b)(4))
is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph
(H), by inserting ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (I), and
by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
``(J) in the case of an authorized committee, disbursements
for the primary election, the general election, and any other
election in which the candidate participates;''.
(2) Names and addresses.--Subparagraph (A) of section
304(b)(5) of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C.
434(b)(5)(A)) is amended--
(A) by striking ``within the calendar year'', and
(B) by inserting ``, and the election to which the
operating expenditure relates'' after ``operating
expenditure''.

SEC. 405. RESTRICTIONS ON FUNDRAISING BY CANDIDATES AND
OFFICEHOLDERS.

Section 315 of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441a), as amended by section 201, is further amended
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
``(o) Limitations on Fundraising Activities of Federal
Candidates and Officeholders and Certain Political
Committees.--(1) For purposes of this Act, a candidate for
Federal office, an individual holding Federal office, or any
agent of the candidate or individual may not solicit funds
to, or receive funds on behalf of, any Federal candidate or
political committee, or any party or other multicandidate
committee organized under State law to support more than one
candidate for non-Federal office--
``(A) which are to be expended in connection with any
election for Federal office unless such funds are subject to
the limitations, prohibitions, and requirements of this Act;
or
``(B) which are to be expended in connection with any
election for other than Federal office unless such funds are
not in excess of amounts permitted with respect to Federal
candidates and political committees under subsections (a) (1)
and (2), and are not from sources prohibited by such
subsections with respect to elections to Federal office.
The limitations of this subsection do not apply to the
solicitation or receipt of funds by a Federal candidate on
behalf of any committee or organization organized primarily
for purposes other than the election of particular candidates
for public office.
``(2)(A) The aggregate amount which a person described in
subparagraph (B) may solicit from a multicandidate political
committee for State committees described in subsection
(a)(1)(C) (including subordinate committees) for any calendar
year shall not exceed the dollar amount in effect under
subsection (a)(2)(B) for the calendar year.
``(B) A person is described in this subparagraph if such
person is a candidate for Federal office, an individual
holding Federal office, an agent of such a candidate or
individual, or any national, State, district, or local
committee of a political party (including a subordinate
committee) and any agent of such a committee.
``(3) The personal appearance or participation by a
candidate for Federal office or individual holding Federal
office in any fundraising event conducted by a committee of a
political party or a candidate for other than Federal office
shall not be treated as a solicitation for purposes of
paragraph (1) if such candidate or individual does not
receive, or make disbursements from, any funds resulting from
such activity.
``(4) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the solicitation or
receipt of funds, or disbursements, by an individual who is a
candidate for other than Federal office if such activity is
permitted under State law.
``(5) For purposes of this subsection, an individual shall
be treated as holding Federal office if such individual--
``(A) holds a Federal office; or
``(B) holds a position described in level I of the
Executive Schedule under section 5312 of title 5, United
States Code.''.

SEC. 406. INCREASE IN AUTHORIZED POLITICAL COMMITTEE
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN
COMMITTEES.

Section 315 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441a), as amended by sections 201 and 405 is further
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
``(p) Authorized Political Committee Contributions to
Congressional Campaign Committee.--For purposes of the
limitations imposed by this section and notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, the authorized political
committees of a House of Representatives or United States
Senate candidate shall not make contributions aggregating
more than $10,000 in any calendar year to the congressional
campaign committees of a political party.''.

SEC. 407. INCREASE IN THE AMOUNT THAT MULTICANDIDATE
POLITICAL COMMITTEES MAY CONTRIBUTE TO NATIONAL
POLITICAL PARTY COMMITTEES.

Section 315(a)(2)(B) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(2)(B)) is amended by striking out
``$15,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``$25,000''.

SEC. 408. MERCHANDISING AND AFFINITY CARDS.

Section 316 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441b) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
``(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section or any
other provision of this Act to the contrary, an amount
received from a corporation (including a State-chartered or
national bank) by any political committee (other than a
separate segregated fund established under section
316(b)(2)(C)) shall be deemed to meet the limitations and
prohibitions of this Act if such amount represents a
commission or royalty on the sale of goods or services, or on
the issuance of credit cards, by such corporation and if--
``(1) such goods, services, or credit cards are promoted by
or in the name of the political committee as a means of
contributing to or supporting the political committee and are
offered to consumers using the name of the political
committee or using a message, design, or device created and
owned by the political committee, or both;
``(2) the corporation is in the business of merchandising
such goods or services, or of issuing such credit cards;
``(3) the royalty or commission has been offered by the
corporation to the political committee in the ordinary course
of the corporation's business and on the same terms and
conditions as those on which such corporation offers
royalties or commissions to nonpolitical entities;
``(4) all revenue on which the commission or royalty is
based represents, or results from, sales to or fees paid by
individual consumers in the ordinary course of retail
transactions;
``(5) the costs of any unsold inventory of goods are
ultimately borne by the political committee in accordance
with rules to be prescribed by the Commission; and
``(6) except for any royalty or commission permitted to be
paid by this subsection, no goods, services, or anything else
of value is provided by such corporation to the political
committee, provided that such corporation may advance or
finance costs or extend credit in connection with the
manufacture and distribution of goods, provision of services,
or issuance of credit cards pursuant to this subsection if
and to the extent such advance, financing, or extension is
undertaken in the ordinary course of the corporation's
business and is undertaken on similar terms by such
corporation in its transactions with nonpolitical entities in
like circumstances.''.

SEC. 409. INCREASED LIMITATION AMOUNT FOR CERTAIN
CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL COMMITTEES OF STATE
POLITICAL PARTIES.

Section 315(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(1)(B)) is amended--
(1) by inserting after ``(B)'' the following:
``notwithstanding any other provision of law,''; and
(2) by inserting after ``national'' the following: ``or
State''.
TITLE V--CONTRIBUTIONS

SEC. 501. RESTRICTIONS ON BUNDLING.

Section 315(a)(8) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(8)) is amended to read as follows:
``(8)(A) No person, either directly or indirectly, may act
as a conduit or intermediary for any contribution to a
candidate.
``(B)(i) Nothing in this section shall prohibit--
``(I) joint fundraising conducted in accordance with rules
prescribed by the Commission by 2 or more candidates; or
``(II) fundraising for the benefit of a candidate that is
conducted by another candidate.
``(ii) No other person may conduct or otherwise participate
in joint fundraising activities with or on behalf of any
candidate.
``(C) The term `conduit or intermediary' means a person who
transmits a contribution to a candidate or candidate's
committee or representative from another person, except
that--
``(i) a House of Representatives candidate or
representative of a House of Representatives candidate is not
a conduit or intermediary for the purpose of transmitting
contributions to the candidate's principal campaign committee
or authorized committee;
``(ii) a professional fundraiser is not a conduit or
intermediary, if the fundraiser is compensated for
fundraising services at the usual and customary rate;
``(iii) a volunteer hosting a fundraising event at the
volunteer's home, in accordance with section 301(8)(b), is
not a conduit or intermediary for the purposes of that event;
and
``(iv) an individual is not a conduit or intermediary for
the purpose of transmitting a contribution from the
individual's spouse.
For purposes of this section a conduit or intermediary
transmits a contribution when receiving or otherwise taking
possession of the contribution and forwarding it directly to
the candidate or the candidate's committee or representative.
``(D) For purposes of this section, the term
`representative'--
``(i) shall mean a person who is expressly authorized by
the candidate to engage in fundraising, and who, in the case
of an individual, is not acting as an officer, employee, or
agent of any other person;
``(ii) shall not include--
``(I) a political committee with a connected organization;
``(II) a political party;
``(III) a partnership or sole proprietorship;
``(IV) an organization prohibited from making contributions
under section 316; or
``(V) a person required to register under section 308 of
the Federal Regulation of Lobbying Act (2 U.S.C. 267) or the
Foreign Agents Registration Act (22 U.S.C. 611) or any
successor Federal law requiring a person who is a lobbyist or
a foreign agent to register.
``(E) For purposes of this section, the term `acting as an
officer, employee, or agent of any other person' includes the
following activities by a salaried officer, employee, or paid
agent of a person described in subparagraph (D)(ii)(IV):
``(i) Soliciting contributions to a particular candidate in
the name of, or by using the name of, such a person.
``(ii) Soliciting contributions to a particular candidate
using other than the incidental resources of such a person.
``(iii) Soliciting contributions to a particular candidate
under the direction or control of other salaried officers,
employees, or paid agents of such a person.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the term `agent' shall
include any person (other than individual members of an
organization described in subparagraph (b)(4)(C) of section
316) acting on authority or under the direction of such
organization.''.

SEC. 502. CONTRIBUTIONS BY DEPENDENTS NOT OF VOTING AGE.

Section 315 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441a), as amended by sections 201, 405, and 406, is
further amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
``(q) For purposes of this section, any contribution by an
individual who--
``(1) is a dependent of another individual; and
``(2) has not, as of the time of such contribution,
attained the legal age for voting for elections to Federal
office in the State in which such individual resides,
shall be treated as having been made by such other
individual. If such individual is the dependent of another
individual and such other individual's spouse, the
contribution shall be allocated among such individuals in the
manner determined by them.''.

SEC. 503. PROHIBITION OF ACCEPTANCE BY A CANDIDATE OF CASH
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM ANY ONE PERSON AGGREGATING
MORE THAN $100.

Section 321 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441g) is amended by inserting ``, and no candidate or
authorized committee of a candidate shall accept from any one
person,'' after ``make''.

SEC. 504. CONTRIBUTIONS TO CANDIDATES FROM STATE AND LOCAL
COMMITTEES OF POLITICAL PARTIES TO BE
AGGREGATED.

Section 315(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(2 U.S.C. 441a(a)) is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
``(9) Notwithstanding paragraph (5)(B), a candidate for
Federal office may not accept, with respect to an election,
any contribution from a State or local committee of a
political party (including any subordinate committee of such
committee), if such contribution, when added to the total of
contributions previously accepted from all such committees of
that political party, exceeds the limitation on contributions
to a candidate under paragraph (2)(A).''.

SEC. 505. PROHIBITION OF FALSE REPRESENTATION TO SOLICIT
CONTRIBUTIONS.

Section 322 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441h) is amended--
(1) by inserting after ``Sec. 322.'' the following:
``(a)''; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
``(b) No person shall solicit contributions by falsely
representing himself as a candidate or as a representative of
a candidate, a political committee, or a political party.''.

SEC. 506. LIMITED EXCLUSION OF ADVANCES BY CAMPAIGN WORKERS
FROM THE DEFINITION OF THE TERM
``CONTRIBUTION''.

Section 301(8)(B) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(8)(B)), as amended by section 403, is
further amended--
(1) in clause (xix), by striking ``and'' after the
semicolon at the end;
(2) in clause (xx), by striking the period at the end and
inserting: ``; and''; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
``(xxi) any advance voluntarily made on behalf of an
authorized committee of a candidate by an individual in the
normal course of such individual's responsibilities as a
volunteer for, or employee of, the committee, if the advance
is reimbursed by the committee within 10 days after the date
on which the advance is made, and the value of advances on
behalf of a committee does not exceed $500 with respect to an
election.''.

SEC. 507. AMENDMENT TO SECTION 316 OF THE FEDERAL ELECTION
CAMPAIGN ACT OF 1971.

Section 316(b)(2) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (2 U.S.C. 441b(b)(2)) is amended--
(1) by striking ``(2) For'' and inserting ``(2)(A) Except
as provided in subparagraph (B), for'';
(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as
clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
``(B) Expenditures by a corporation or labor organization
for candidate appearances, candidate debates, voter guides,
or voting records directed to the general public shall be
considered contributions unless--
``(i) in the case of a candidate appearance, the appearance
takes place on corporate or labor organization premises or at
a meeting or convention of the corporation or labor
organization, and all candidates for election to that office
are notified that they may make an appearance under the same
or similar conditions;
``(ii) in the case of a candidate debate, the organization
staging the debate is either an organization described in
section 301 whose broadcasts or publications are supported by
commercial advertising, subscriptions or sales to the public,
including a noncommercial educational broadcaster, or a
nonprofit organization exempt from Federal taxation under
section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 that does not endorse, support, oppose candidates or
political parties and any such debate features at least 2
candidates competing for election to that office;
``(iii) in the case of a voter guide, the guide is prepared
and distributed by a corporation or labor organization and
consists of questions posed to at least two candidates for
election to that office; and
``(iv) in the case of a voting record, the record is
prepared and distributed by a corporation or labor
organization and such preparation and distribution occurs
either without consultation with any candidate whose record
is included or in consultation with all such candidates;
provided that no communication made by a corporation or labor
organization in connection with the candidate appearance,
candidate debate, voter guide, or voting record contains
express advocacy, or that no structure or format of the
candidate appearance, candidate debate, voter guide, or
voting record, nor any preparation or distribution of any
such guide or record, reflects a purpose of influencing the
election of a particular candidate.''.

SEC. 508. PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN ELECTION-RELATED ACTIVITIES
OF FOREIGN NATIONALS.

Section 319 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441e) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsections:
``(c) A foreign national shall not directly or indirectly
direct, control, influence or participate in any person's
election-related activities, such as the making of
contributions or expenditures in connection with elections
for any local, State, or Federal office or the administration
of a political committee.
``(d) A separate segregated fund established in accordance
with section 316(b)(2)(C) involved in the making of
contributions or expenditures in connection with elections
for any Federal, State, or local office shall include the
following statement on all printed materials produced for the
purpose of soliciting contributions:
```It is unlawful for a foreign national to make any
contribution of money or other thing of value to a political
committee.'.''.
TITLE VI--REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

SEC. 601. CHANGE IN CERTAIN REPORTING FROM A CALENDAR YEAR
BASIS TO AN ELECTION CYCLE BASIS.

Paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (6), and (7) of section 304(b) of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C.
434(b)(2), (3), (4), (6), and (7)), are amended by inserting
after ``calendar year'' each place it appears the following:
``(election cycle, in the case of an authorized committee of
a candidate for Federal office)''.

SEC. 602. PERSONAL AND CONSULTING SERVICES.

(a) Reporting by Political Committees.--Section
304(b)(5)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 434(b)(5)(A)), as amended by section 405, is further
amended by inserting before the semicolon at the end the
following: ``, except that if a person to whom an expenditure
is made is merely providing personal or consulting services
and is in turn making expenditures to other persons (not
including employees) who provide goods or services to the
candidate or his or her authorized committees, the name and
address of such other person, together with the date, amount
and purpose of such expenditure shall also be disclosed''.
(b) Recordkeeping and Reporting by Persons to Whom
Expenditures Are Passed Through.--Section 302 of Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 432) is amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:
``(j) The person described in section 304(b)(5)(A) who is
providing personal or consulting services and who is in turn
making expenditures to other persons (not including
employees) for goods or services provided to a candidate
shall maintain records of and shall provide to a political
committee the information necessary to enable the political
committee to report the information described in section
304(b)(5)(A).''.

SEC. 603. REDUCTION IN THRESHOLD FOR REPORTING OF CERTAIN
INFORMATION BY PERSONS OTHER THAN POLITICAL
COMMITTEES.

Section 304(b)(3)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 434(b)(3)(A)) is amended by striking
``$200'' and inserting ``$100''.

SEC. 604. COMPUTERIZED INDICES OF CONTRIBUTIONS.

Section 311(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(2 U.S.C. 438(a)) is amended--
(1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (9);
(2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (10) and
inserting ``; and''; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
``(11) maintain computerized indices of contributions of
$200 or more.''.

SEC. 605. IDENTIFICATION.

Section 301(13)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(13)(A)) is amended by striking ``mailing
address'' and inserting ``permanent residence address''.

SEC. 606. POLITICAL COMMITTEES.

Section 303(b) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(2 U.S.C. 433(b)) is amended--
(1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, and if the
organization or committee is incorporated, the State of
incorporation'' after ``committee''; and
(2) by striking the ``name and address of the treasurer''
in paragraph (4) and inserting ``the names and addresses of
the officers, including the treasurer''.

SEC. 607. USE OF CANDIDATES' NAMES.

Section 302(e)(4) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (2 U.S.C. 432(e)(4)) is amended to read as follows:
``(4)(A) The name of each authorized committee shall
include the name of the candidate who authorized the
committee under paragraph (1).
``(B) A political committee that is not an authorized
committee shall not--
``(i) include the name of any candidate in its name, or
``(ii) except in the case of a national, State, or local
party committee, use the name of any candidate in any
activity on behalf of such committee in such a context as to
suggest that the committee is an authorized committee of the
candidate or that the use of the candidate's name has been
authorized by the candidate.''.

SEC. 608. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

Section 304 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 434), as amended by section 404, is further amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:
``(f) Waiver.--The Commission may relieve any category of
political committees of the obligation to file 1 or more
reports required by this section, or may change the due dates
of such reports, if it determines that such action is
consistent with the purposes of this Act. The Commission may
waive requirements to file reports in accordance with this
subsection through a rule of general applicability or, in a
specific case, may waive or change the due date of a report
by notifying all political committees affected.''.

SEC. 609. SIMULTANEOUS REGISTRATION OF CANDIDATE AND
CANDIDATE'S PRINCIPAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE.

Section 303(a) of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 433(a)) is amended in the first sentence by striking
``no later than 10 days after designation'' and inserting
``on the date of its designation''.
TITLE VII--FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

SEC. 701. APPEARANCE AS AMICI CURIAE.

Section 306(f) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(2 U.S.C. 437c(f)) is amended by striking out paragraph (4)
and inserting in lieu thereof the following new paragraph:
``(4)(A) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2),
or of any other provision of law, the Commission is
authorized to appear on its own behalf in any action related
to the exercise of its statutory duties or powers in any
court as either a party or as amicus curiae, either--
``(i) by attorneys employed in its office, or
``(ii) by counsel whom it may appoint, on a temporary basis
as may be necessary for such purpose, without regard to the
provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing
appointments in the competitive service, and whose
compensation it may fix without regard to the provisions of
chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title.
The compensation of counsel so appointed on a temporary basis
shall be paid out of any funds otherwise available to pay the
compensation of employees of the Commission.
``(B) The authority granted under subparagraph (A) includes
the power to appeal from, and petition the Supreme Court for
certiorari to review, judgments or decrees entered with
respect to actions in which the Commission appears pursuant
to the authority provided in this section.''.

SEC. 702. FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION PUBLIC SERVICE
ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Title III of Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 431 et seq.), as amended by sections 403 and 610, is
further amended by inserting after section 324 the following
new section:

``SEC. 325. PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS.

``(a) In General.--Beginning on January 15, and continuing
through April 15 of each year, the Federal Election
Commission shall carry out a program, utilizing broadcast
announcements and other appropriate means, to inform the
public of the existence and purpose of the Make Democracy
Work Election Fund and the role that individual citizens can
play in the election process by voluntarily contributing to
the Fund. The Commission shall seek to broadcast such
announcements during prime time viewing hours in 30-second
advertising segments equivalent to 200 gross rating points
per network per week. The Commission shall attempt to ensure
that the maximum number of taxpayers shall be exposed to
these announcements. The Federal Election Commission shall
attempt to utilize a variety of communications media,
including television, cable, and radio networks, and
individual television, cable, and radio stations, to provide
similar announcements.
``(b) Gross Rating Point.--The term `gross rating point' is
a measure of the total gross weight delivered. It is the sum
of the ratings for individual programs. Since a household
rating period is 1 percent of the coverage base, 200 gross
rating points means 2 messages a week per average
household.''.

SEC. 703. AUTHORITY TO SEEK INJUNCTION.

Section 309(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(2 U.S.C. 437g(a)) is amended--
(1) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
``(13)(A) If, at any time in a proceeding described in
paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4), the Commission believes
that--
``(i) there is a substantial likelihood that a violation of
this Act or of chapter 95 or chapter 96 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is occurring or is about to occur;
``(ii) the failure to act expeditiously will result in
irreparable harm to a party affected by the potential
violation;
``(iii) expeditious action will not cause undue harm or
prejudice to the interests of others; and
``(iv) the public interest would be best served by the
issuance of an injunction,
the Commission may initiate a civil action for a temporary
restraining order or a temporary injunction pending the
outcome of the proceedings described in paragraphs (1), (2),
(3), and (4).
``(B) An action under subparagraph (A) shall be brought in
the United States district court for the district in which
the defendant resides, transacts business, or may be found or
in which the violation is occurring, has occurred, or is
about to occur.'';
(2) in paragraph (7), by striking ``(5) or (6)'' and
inserting ``(5), (6), or (13)''; and
(3) in paragraph (11), by striking ``(6)'' and inserting
``(6) or (13)''.

SEC. 704. EXPEDITED PROCEDURES.

Section 309(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(2 U.S.C. 437g(a)), as amended by section 703, is further
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
``(14)(A) If the complaint in a proceeding was filed within
60 days immediately preceding a general election, the
Commission may take action described in this subparagraph.
``(B) If the Commission determines, on the basis of facts
alleged in the complaint and other facts available to it,
that there is clear and convincing evidence that a violation
of this Act or of chapter 95 or 96 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 has occurred, is occurring, or is about to occur
and it appears that the requirements for relief stated in
paragraph (13)(A)(ii), (iii), and (iv) are met, the
Commission may--
``(i) order expedited proceedings, shortening the time
periods for proceedings under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and
(4) as necessary to allow the matter to be resolved in
sufficient time before the election to avoid harm or
prejudice to the interests of the parties; or
``(ii) if the Commission determines that there is
insufficient time to conduct proceedings before the election,
immediately seek relief under paragraph (13)(A).
``(C) If the Commission determines, on the basis of facts
alleged in the complaint and other facts available to it,
that the complaint is clearly without merit, the Commission
may--
``(i) order expedited proceedings, shortening the time
periods for proceedings under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and
(4) as necessary to allow the matter to be resolved in
sufficient time before the election to avoid harm or
prejudice to the interests of the parties; or
``(ii) if the Commission determines that there is
insufficient time to conduct proceedings before the election,
summarily dismiss the complaint.''.

SEC. 705. INSOLVENT POLITICAL COMMITTEES.

(a) In General.--Section 303(d) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 433(d)) is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
``(3) Proceedings by the Commission under paragraph (2)
constitute the sole means, to the exclusion of proceedings
under title 11, United States Code, by which a political
committee that is determined by the Commission to be
insolvent may compromise its debts, liquidate its assets, and
terminate its existence.''.
(b) Procedures.--Section 303(d)(2) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 433(d)(2)) is amended by
striking out ``Nothing'' and all that follows through
``procedures'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``The Commission
shall establish procedures to allow''.
TITLE VIII--BALLOT INITIATIVE COMMITTEES

SEC. 801. DEFINITIONS RELATING TO BALLOT INITIATIVES.

Section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 431), as amended by sections 123 and 401, is further
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
``(31) The term `ballot initiative political committee'
means any committee, club, association, or other group of
persons which makes ballot initiative expenditures or
receives ballot initiative contributions in excess of $1,000
during a calendar year.
``(32) The term `ballot initiative contribution' means any
gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or
anything of value made by any person for the purpose of
influencing the outcome of any referendum or other ballot
initiative voted on at the State, commonwealth, territory, or
District of Columbia level which involves--
``(A) the election of candidates for Federal office and the
permissible terms of those so elected; or
``(B) the regulation of speech or press, or any other right
guaranteed under the United States Constitution.
``(33) The term `ballot initiative expenditure' means any
purchase, payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or
gift of money or anything of value made by any person for the
purpose of influencing the outcome of any referendum or other
ballot initiative voted on at the state, commonwealth,
territory, or District of Columbia level which involves--
``(A) the election of candidates for Federal office and the
permissible terms of those so elected; or
``(B) the regulation of speech or press, or any other right
guaranteed under the United States Constitution.''.

SEC. 802. AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION OF CONTRIBUTION.

Section 301(8)(B) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(8)(B)), as amended by sections 403 and
506, is further amended--
(1) in clause (xx), by striking ``and'' after the
semicolon;
(2) in clause (xxi), by striking the period and inserting
``; and''; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
``(xxii) a ballot initiative contribution.''.

SEC. 803. AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION OF EXPENDITURE.

Section 301(9)(B) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(9)(B)), as amended by sections 401 and
403, is further amended--
(1) in clause (xvii), by striking ``and'' after the
semicolon;
(2) in clause (xviii), by striking the period and inserting
``; and''; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
``(xix) a ballot initiative expenditure.''.

SEC. 804. ORGANIZATION OF BALLOT INITIATIVE COMMITTEES.

Section 302 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 432), as amended by section 602, is further amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:
``(k) Every ballot initiative committee shall comply with
the organizational and recordkeeping requirements of this
section, with respect to all ballot initiative contributions
and ballot initiative expenditures.''.

SEC. 805. REGISTRATION OF BALLOT INITIATIVE COMMITTEES.

Section 303 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 433) is amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
``(e) Every ballot initiative committee shall comply with
the registration requirements of this section.''.

SEC. 806. REPORTING BY BALLOT INITIATIVE COMMITTEES.

Section 304 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 434), as amended by sections 404 and 608, is further
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
``(g) Every ballot initiative committee shall comply with
the reporting requirements of subsections (a)(1), (a)(4), and
(b), with respect to the reporting of all ballot initiative
contributions and ballot initiative expenditures. The
provisions of subsections (a)(5), (7), and (8) shall apply to
reports filed by ballot initiative committees.''.

SEC. 807. ENFORCEMENT FOR BALLOT INITIATIVE COMMITTEES.

Section 309 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 437g) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
``(e) The Commission may proceed in accordance with the
requirements of this section, either on the basis of a
complaint filed under subsection (a)(1) or on information
ascertained in the normal course of carrying out its
supervisory responsibilities, to determine whether a ballot
initiative committee has complied with the requirements of
sections 302, 303, and 304(a)(1), (a)(4) and (b).''.

SEC. 808. PROHIBITION ON CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENDITURES BY
BALLOT INITIATIVE COMMITTEES.

Section 315 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441a), as amended by sections 201, 405, 406, and 502,
is further amended by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
``(r) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a)(1),
it shall be unlawful for any ballot initiative committee to
make any contribution or expenditure for the purpose of
influencing any election for Federal office.''.
TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 901. BROADCAST RATES AND PREEMPTION.

Section 315 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
315) is amended--
(1) in subsection (b)(1)--
(A) by striking ``forty-five'' and inserting ``30'';
(B) by striking ``sixty'' and inserting ``45''; and
(C) by striking ``lowest unit charge of the station for the
same class and amount of time for the same period'' and
insert ``lowest charge of the station for the same amount of
time for the same period''; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new
subsection:
``(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a licensee
shall not preempt the use, during any period specified in
subsection (b)(1), of a broadcasting station by a legally
qualified candidate for public office who has purchased and
paid for such use pursuant to the provisions of subsection
(b)(1).
``(2) If a program to be broadcast by a broadcasting
station is preempted because of circumstances beyond the
control of the broadcasting station, any candidate
advertising spot scheduled to be broadcast during that
program may also be preempted.''.

SEC. 902. CAMPAIGN ADVERTISING AMENDMENTS.

Section 318 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
U.S.C. 441d) is amended--
(1) in the matter before paragraph (1) of subsection (a),
by striking ``Whenever'' and inserting ``Whenever a political
committee makes a disbursement for the purpose of financing
any communication through any broadcasting station,
newspaper, magazine, outdoor advertising facility, mailing,
or any other type of general public political advertising, or
whenever'';
(2) in the matter before paragraph (1) of subsection (a),
by striking ``an expenditure'' and inserting ``a
disbursement'';
(3) in the matter before paragraph (1) of subsection (a),
by striking ``direct'';
(4) in paragraph (3) of subsection (a), by inserting after
``name'' the following ``and permanent street address''; and
(5) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
``(c) Any printed communication described in subsection (a)
shall be--
``(1) of sufficient type size to be clearly readable by the
recipient of the communication;
``(2) contained in a printed box set apart from the other
contents of the communication; and
``(3) consist of a reasonable degree of color contrast
between the background and the printed statement.
``(d)(1) Any communication described in subsection (a)(1)
or subsection (a)(2) that is provided to and distributed by
any broadcasting station or cable system (as such terms are
defined in sections 315 and 602 (respectively) of the
Communications Act of 1934) shall include, in addition to the
requirements of subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2), an audio
statement by the candidate that identifies the candidate and
states that the candidate has approved the communication.
``(2) If a communication described in paragraph (1)
contains any visual images, the statement required by
paragraph (1) shall--
``(A) appear in a clearly readable manner with a reasonable
degree of color contrast between the background and the
printed statement, for a period of at least 4 seconds at the
end of the communication; and
``(B) be accompanied by a clearly identifiable photographic
or similar image of the candidate.
``(e) Any communication described in subsection (a)(3) that
is provided to and distributed by any broadcasting station or
cable system (as such terms are defined in sections 315 and
602 (respectively) of the Communications Act of 1934) shall
include, in addition to the requirements of those
subsections, in a clearly spoken manner, the following
statement--
`             is responsible for the content of this
advertisement.'
with the blank to be filled in with the name of the political
committee or other person paying for the communication and
the name of any connected organization of the payor; and, if
such communication contains visual images, shall also appear
in a clearly readable manner with a reasonable degree of
color contrast between the background and the printed
statement, for a period of at least 4 seconds.''.

SEC. 903. TELEPHONE VOTING BY PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.

(a) Study of Systems To Permit Persons With Disabilities To
Vote by Telephone.--
(1) In general.--The Federal Election Commission shall
conduct a study to determine the feasibility of developing a
system or systems by which persons with disabilities may be
permitted to vote by telephone.
(2) Consultation.--The Federal Election Commission shall
conduct the study described in paragraph (1) in consultation
with State and local election officials, representatives of
the telecommunications industry, representatives of persons
with disabilities, and other concerned members of the public.
(3) Criteria.--The system or systems developed pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall--
(A) propose a description of the kinds of disabilities that
impose such difficulty in travel to polling places that a
person with a disability who may desire to vote is
discouraged from undertaking such travel;
(B) propose procedures to identify persons who are so
disabled; and
(C) describe procedures and equipment that may be used to
ensure that--
(i) only those persons who are entitled to use the system
are permitted to use it;
(ii) the votes of persons who use the system are recorded
accurately and remain secret;
(iii) the system minimizes the possibility of vote fraud;
and
(iv) the system minimizes the financial costs that State
and local governments would incur in establishing and
operating the system.
(4) Requests for proposals.--In developing a system
described in paragraph (1), the Federal Election Commission
may request proposals from private contractors for the design
of procedures and equipment to be used in the system.
(5) Physical access.--Nothing in this section is intended
to supersede or supplant efforts by State and local
governments to make polling places physically accessible to
persons with disabilities.
(6) Deadline.--The Federal Election Commission shall submit
to Congress the study required by this section not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 904. TRANSFER OF PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION FINANCING
PROVISIONS TO FEDERAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN ACT OF
1971.

(a) General Rule.--The Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 is amended by adding at the end the following:
``TITLE VIII--FINANCING OF PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
``Subtitle A--Presidential Election Campaign Fund
``Subtitle B--Presidential Primary Matching Payment Account''.
(b) Transfer of Provisions From Internal Revenue Code.--
(1) Sections 9001 through 9012 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 are hereby transferred to the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971, inserted after the heading for subtitle
A of title VIII of such Act (as added by subsection (a)), and
redesignated as sections 801 through 812, respectively.
(2) Sections 9031 through 9042 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 are hereby transferred to the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971, inserted after the heading for subtitle
B of title VIII of such Act, and redesignated as sections 831
through 842, respectively.
(c) Conforming Amendments to Internal Revenue Code.--The
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
(1) by striking ``section 9006(a)'' in section 6096(a) and
inserting ``section 806(a) of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971'',
(2) by striking subtitle H, and
(3) by striking the item relating to subtitle H in the
table of subtitles.
(d) Conforming Amendments to Transferred Sections.--
(1) Each section transferred under subsection (b) is
amended by striking each reference contained therein to
another provision transferred and redesignated by subsection
(b) and inserting a reference to the redesignated provision.
(2) Title VIII of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(as amended by the foregoing provisions of this section) is
amended--
(A) by striking ``This chapter'' each place it appears and
inserting ``This subtitle'',
(B) by striking ``this chapter'' each place it appears and
inserting ``this subtitle'',
(C) by striking ``of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971'' each place it appears,
(D) by striking ``chapter 96'' in section 803(e) and
inserting ``subtitle B'',
(E) by striking ``section 6096'' in sections 806(a),
808(a), and 810(c) and inserting ``section 6096 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986'', and
(F) by striking ``this subtitle'' in section 810(c) and
inserting ``this title''.
(e) Savings Provisions.--
(1) Continuation of funds.--The fund established under
section 806(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(as amended by this section) shall be treated for all
purposes of law as a continuation of the fund established by
section 9006(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as in
effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this
Act). A similar rule shall apply to the accounts required
under sections 808 and 837 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (as so amended).
(2) References to transferred provisions.--Any reference in
any law, rule, regulation, or other official paper to a
provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which was
transferred under subsection (b) shall be treated as
reference to the appropriate provision of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971.
TITLE X--HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES CAMPAIGN ELECTION FUNDING AND RELATED
MATTERS

SEC. 1001. MAKE DEMOCRACY WORK ELECTION FUND.

The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431 et
seq.), as amended by section 121, is further amended by
adding at the end the following new title:
``TITLE VII--MAKE DEMOCRACY WORK ELECTION FUND

``SEC. 701. ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF THE FUND.

``(a) In General.--There is hereby established on the books
of the Treasury of the United States a special fund to be
known as the Make Democracy Work Election Fund (hereinafter
in this title referred to as the `Fund'). The amounts
designated for the Fund shall remain available without fiscal
limitation for purposes of providing benefits under title VI
and making expenditures for the administration of the Fund.
The Secretary shall maintain such accounts in the Fund as may
be required by this title or which the Secretary determines
to be necessary to carry out the provisions of this title.
``(b) Payments Upon Certification.--Upon receipt of a
certification from the Commission under section 604, except
as provided in subsection (c), the Secretary shall issue
within 48 hours to an eligible candidate the amount of voter
communication vouchers certified by the Commission to the
eligible candidate out of the Fund.
``(c) Reductions in Payments if Funds Insufficient.--If on
June 1, 1996, or on June 1 of a Federal election year
thereafter, the Secretary determines that the moneys in the
account are not, or may not be, sufficient to satisfy the
full entitlement of all eligible candidates, the Secretary
shall withhold from such payment the amount necessary to
assure that each eligible candidate will receive a pro rata
share of the candidate's full entitlement. Amounts so
withheld shall be paid when the Secretary determines that
there are sufficient moneys in the account to pay such
amounts, or portions thereof, to all eligible candidates from
whom amounts have been withheld, but, if there are not
sufficient moneys in the account to satisfy the full
entitlement of an eligible candidate, the amounts so withheld
shall be paid in such manner that each eligible candidate
receives a pro rata share of the full entitlement, except
that--
``(1) in special elections, a candidate shall receive the
full entitlement not a pro rata share; and
``(2) a candidate who receives vouchers from the Fund in
response to an independent expenditure as provided in section
604(f) shall receive the full entitlement not a pro rata
share.
``(d) Notification.--The Secretary shall notify the
Commission and each eligible candidate by registered mail of
any reduction of any payment by reason of subsection (c).
``(e) Redeemability of Vouchers.--Voter communication
vouchers issued and used as provided in this section shall be
redeemable at face value by the Secretary through the
facilities of the Treasury of the United States. The
Secretary shall issue regulations providing for the
redemption of voter communication vouchers through financial
institutions which are insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation. No financial institution may impose a
fee or other charge for the redemption of voter communication
vouchers.''.
TITLE XI--EFFECTIVE DATES; SEVERABILITY

SEC. 1101. EFFECTIVE DATE.

Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the amendments
made by, and the provisions of, this Act shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act but shall not apply
with respect to activities in connection with any election
occurring before January 1, 1995.

SEC. 1102. SEVERABILITY.

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), if any provision
of this Act (including any amendment made by this Act), or
the application of any such provision to any person or
circumstance, is held invalid, the validity of any other
provision of this Act, or the application of such provision
to other persons and circumstances, shall not be affected
thereby.
(b) If title VI of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971, section 315(i) through (j) (as added by this Act), or
section 701 (as added by this Act), or any part thereof, is
held to be invalid, all provisions of, and amendments made by
title VI, section 315(i) through (j) of this Act, or section
701 of this Act shall be treated as invalid.

SEC. 1103. EXPEDITED REVIEW OF CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES.

(a) Direct Appeal to Supreme Court.--An appeal may be taken
directly to the Supreme Court of the United States from any
final judgment, decree, or order issued by any court finding
any provision of this Act, or amendment made by this Act to
be unconstitutional.
(b) Acceptance and Expedition.--The Supreme Court shall, if
it has not previously ruled on the question addressed in the
ruling below, accept jurisdiction over, advance on the
docket, and expedite the appeal to the greatest extent
possible.

SEC. 1104. REGULATIONS.

The Federal Election Commission shall prescribe any
regulations required to carry out the provisions of this Act
within 12 months after the effective date of this Act.

SEC. 1105. BUDGET NEUTRALITY.

The provisions of this Act (other than this section) shall
not be effective and shall not be considered to be an
estimate required under the procedures specified in section
252(d) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 until the enactment of revenue legislation
effectuating section 701 of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971.

 President, I move the Senate disagree to the House
amendments to the Senate bill and I send to the desk a cloture motion
on the motion to disagree and ask for its immediate consideration.
