 Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding to me, and I thank her for taking this time, because obviously
the argument of our opponents in this area is that you need to have an
employer mandate to achieve universal coverage.
In addition to that, I think the usual argument is that, after all,
it is a continuation of our current system. I think, as the President
said, ``That is where most people get their health care now.'' However,
the points the gentlewoman has just made, I think, need to be brought
into crystal-clear alignment, so that everyone understands why we are
opposed to an employer mandate.
Under the current system most Americans get their health care at the
workplace, but it is under a voluntary arrangement between the employer
and the employee. Some employers pay 50 percent, some pay 60, some pay
70, some pay 80, some pay 100 percent, but whatever it is that the
employer pays, it comes out of either a collective bargaining structure
or negotiation between the employer and the employee, if it is not a
union arrangement.
It is not, as the gentlewoman indicated, a mandated 80 percent or a
particular benefits package.
How did we get into the situation in which the employer got to deduct
the costs of health care? It has been there ever since 1913, when the
income tax went into effect, but most people agree that World War II
was the time when health benefits from employers expanded enormously.
We know that wages were not increased. We had a board to make sure that
employers could not increase wages during World War II. One of the
things they could do for their employees was to provide health
benefits. It was the growth from World War II by government edict,
rather than wage increases, that was the primary impetus for putting
the employer in the position of offering health care in the first
place.
When you say ``the employer mandate,'' that the employer will pay 80
percent and the employee will pay 20 percent, that really is a fiction.
Go back to World War II. The employer would have preferred to either
offer a wage increase or the benefits. The government said they could
not do that.
Today, if in fact the employer is paying for health benefits for the
employee, it is coming from one or a combination of three areas.
Business pays for nothing. Either it comes out of the profits of the
owners or dividends to the shareholders, which does not allow the
company to grow as rapidly or diversify as much as it would want to do,
or it comes from increasing prices on the goods and services that the
company offers, which puts it in a negative position, perhaps in the
marketplace, as opposed to its competitors, or, it comes from
employees' wages.
In most of the studies that I have seen, I think most economists will
agree that 85 percent or more of the health care costs that are offered
by the employer, quote unquote, actually come out of the employee's
wages. The employee is paying for those health care costs, so to say it
is going to come 80 percent from the employer and 20 percent from the
employee is simply not fair. The entire amount will be borne by the
employee.
That is why the gentlewoman's statistics about how many jobs are
going to be lost becomes fairly obvious.
If the employer can agree with the employee to pay a portion of the
health care costs, fine. However, when it is mandated on the employer,
the employer then has to examine the employee, one, to determine
whether or not that employee is worth the mandated cost that is imposed
upon the employer.
Frankly, some workers in some jobs, and especially in some
industries, simply are not worth that additional mandate cost, so the
employer will let them go. That is where the statistics about the
unemployment figures are coming from.
If in fact the Democrats and the President are going to mandate
employer paying, they are in fact going to mandate unemployment,
because that is how the world works.
