
Mr. Chairman, I want to thank both the gentleman from California [Mr.
Gallegly], the gentleman from Oregon [Mr. Smith], who preceded him in
yielding time, as well as, certainly, the gentleman from Texas [Mr.
Stenholm], who has permitted us a fair debate today, who structured
this rule, brought it to the floor, and structured this debate. I think
it has been a very important debate, and I think that we are going to
probably see it even pick up in intensity as we move into the
individual amendments, but to the gentleman from Texas [Mr. Stenholm]
particularly, I want to commend him for the way he has handled this and
brought this matter to the floor.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the so-called Stenholm
amendment and in favor of the so-called Wise-Pomeroy-Price-Furse, and
others who have cosponsored it, balanced budget amendment. We are going
to say if you are going to put an amendment into the Constitution of
the United States, it ought to have certain provisions.
There has been eloquent testimony here tonight about our children and
our grandchildren and passing on debt. Certainly that is something we
are all very, very cognizant of, the need to give them every
opportunity to be unencumbered, or as unencumbered as possible.
However, while we have been talking about wanting to avoid passing on
debt, I think it is important as well as to talk about passing on
opportunity, passing on those opportunities for a full life that can
only come because their parents and their grandparents made certain
decisions, made certain investments, put this country on a path that it
could grow instead of contract.
Mr. Chairman, I would just like to say, in the likening of the family
budget, or the comparison, actually, of the family budget and the
Federal budget, I think it is important to note, how would you like
going to talk to a family and saying, ``You want a balanced budget,
don't you?''
The family would say, ``Of course we do. We sit down every month and
we work out our costs. We have a budget. We know how much we can
spend.''
``Good. Do you know that you will have to pay for your house all in
one payment, all in 1 year? You won't be able to get a mortgage for 20
to 30 years.''

``Oh?''
``Do you know that the car, the $10,000 or $15,000 automobile that
you need to get to and from work, to take the children to school, do
you know that you are going to have to pay for that in 1 year, you are
going to have to put cash down totally?''
``Oh?''
``Do you know that the education that you want to get for your child,
to send that child to college so their income, according to most
statistics, will probably be double to triple that of the child who
does not finish high school, do you know that you are going to have to
pay for all that tuition in 1 year, actually in probably one payment?''
They would say, ``Oh?''
That is what you are asking the Federal budget to do if you do not
have capital budgeting. I think most families would say, ``We want
responsible budgeting, but we also want the Federal Government to be
able to invest in those things that are important.''
Just as in families, we finance those long-term investments that are
crucial to the growth and development of the family, so it is
reasonable to expect the Federal Government to. What is not reasonable
to expect the Federal Government to do is to run up so much debt,
particularly in areas that do not produce long-term economic return.
What the so-called Wise-Price-Pomeroy-Furse amendment does is to say
that the debt service will be part of the operating income, and so
indeed it will come under the balanced budget provisions.
Most States, every State, to my knowledge, require a balanced budget,
but also have capital investments. Everyone who stood on the floor
tonight is from a State that has capital budgeting in some regard, and
yet the Federal Government does not. Every business knows that it has
to make investments, but chooses to spread the cost of that investment
out over the life of the asset.
How would it go if a factory could not borrow for growth, but instead
had to pay for that piece of vital equipment that increases
productivity many fold, and yet would have to pay for it up front? The
reality is many factories could not.
I implore this body, as it is drafting a constitutional amendment,
not to put the Federal budget into a fiscal straitjacket, but to
recognize the important role of capital budgeting.

I think it is important to point out that our amendment, our
alternative, is the only one that does two things, the only one that
takes Social Security off budget. I have heard a lot of discussion
tonight about, and happen to agree that most Members here, I do not
know if any Member here would vote for cuts in Social Security. But if
that is the case, then why the harm, why the bother in taking Social
Security off budget, as many Members have said they thought out to be
done, and providing senior citizens that security of knowing that it is
secure?
We are the only amendment that does that. We are the only amendment
that provides for capital budgeting. Many colleagues have told me they
like the idea of capital budgeting, perhaps it is something that ought
to be done in legislation. My concern is that if any of the other
amendments pass, we will not be able to do capital budgeting in
subsequent legislation. Here is a chance now to put it into place,
particularly in the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. Chairman, I would urge my colleagues that here, with the Wise-
Price-Pomeroy-Furse amendment, the alternative amendment, that you have
an opportunity to guarantee to senior citizens the security of Social
Security by taking it off budget. You have an opportunity to stop
passing on debt. We have exactly the same limitations, exactly the same
effective date as the so-called Stenholm amendment and the other
amendments, the year 2001.
Finally, you have the opportunity to pass on to your children
something positive. You have the opportunity to pass on the recognition
that investments in their future are going to be considered and given a
priority status, and that will not be discouraged by the language in
the Constitution or in other legislation that would preclude those
types of investments. We want to encourage investing, we want to
encourage those things that make us better, we do not want to
discourage them.
Finally, going back to the family, the family knows well that you do
not go and borrow money to drive through a fast food restaurant drive-
through. That is silly. You want to make sure that part of the budget
is balanced, but the family knows well the importance of long-term
investments: their mortgage, their house, their car, their children's
education.
We in the Federal Government can take that lesson to heart as well. I
urge adoption of the Wise-Price-Pomeroy-Furse amendment so that you can
protect Social Security by moving it off budget, provide for capital
budgeting, and provide for those future opportunities for the children
and grandchildren that have been the subject of all the discussion here
tonight.
I thank the Chair and I thank the gentleman from Texas [Mr.
Stenholm].
